---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 42 - Taping your webcam, open ports, the WHY of it all
categories: 100daysofwriting
---

I have thought long and hard about the topic that I plan to write on today,
Privacy. I taped my laptop's webcam about 2 weeks ago, it afforded a renewed
notion of _security_, for the past 2 years, I have had it obscured because the
lid of my laptop is mostly closed. But now, I am all in. When I think about the
_doors_ that I have left open for attackers, I want to be sure that there's
nothing obviously wrong that I am doing. Before my [recent Ubuntu
re-install](https://icyflame.github.io/blog/100daysofwriting/writing/ubuntu/installation/2017/03/04/day-15/),
I had the package `openssh-server` installed on my primary computer! YEAH. Port
22 was open, it was behind a router and I used it to connect to my computer
through my phone. 

Let me say that again: I had an RSA private key on my phone
that could be used to get into my computer. Obviously, I didn't know how
insanely dangerous and stupid of my it was to have this kind of a setup, but I
used to have that, and now I don't. That's partly because of all the articles
that I read online about privacy and _really important_ people's email getting
leaked or copied or hacked into or stolen, and partly because I finally
understand how **easy** it is for someone to mount an attack, all it takes is a
bit of social engineering (talk to the victim, get some details out of them,
have access to their phone in an _unlocked_ state for a short period of time)
and the determination to want to get in.

Specifically, I think I should mention Robert Heaton's post about [cloning
Facebook sessions using the Chrome extension
EditThisCookie](http://robertheaton.com/2014/12/08/fun-with-your-friends-facebook-and-tinder-session-tokens/),
which I tried myself with an incognito browser and my _actual_ session and IT
WORKED! A running ratchet that would change the session key for encryption every
few minutes sounds like something that Facebook should have implemented? It all
sounds really shady to me, because there were literally two steps to the whole
process: 1. Install the extension 2. Copy the cookies and send them to yourself.
The whole process would take about 5-9 minutes on a decent Internet connection
with a good mouse and keyboard, assuming a logged in email account which is
totally legit.

Obviously, the Snowden leaks, NSA _apparently_ being able to switch on webcams
without turning on the indicator lights on many versions and the Black Mirror
S03E03 were all powerful contributing factors. (Mr. Robot didn't have any
privacy specific implications yet, but the next season might? should? We will
see!)

P.S. See that black mirror episode if you haven't already! The show was taken
over by Netflix for the third season, and the production has changed and the
difference between British production and Netflix production is rather visible!
Nonetheless, all seasons of that show are GREAT.

**POST #42 is OVER**
