---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Old Habits Die Hard, Criminal show - GET IT
categories: writing books
---

I find myself thinking about what to write every day. This has been happening
everyday since the end of the 100 days.

A general update, is what this post is.

I am reading [Apt
Pupil](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10618.Apt_Pupil). The book has gone
literally nowhere since I started it. Since this is a book of four stories, I
don't even know how much of it I have read, it must be 20-30 pages and the book
is slowly progressing somewhere. This initial period of intrigue that exists
right before the explosive event and the chase that happens in the end + climax
of the book seems to be a common theme in Stephen King books.

I have also been raving about the [Criminal show: a
podcast](http://thisiscriminal.com/) which I found on [Radio
Public](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.radiopublic.android).
The show is incredible! I have always liked short audio stuff like this, because
the recording is done in a studio and once the sound is mixed, the output is
incredibly personal. It feels like the person is talking to you through the
phone, on a really good connection. Episodes are also 20 minutes which is my
daily commute time! There is also something deeply interesting and intriguing
about the stories that they pick.

I am also discovering new content on Radio Public, there seem to be several good
shows. (99% Invisible is another good show. I am listening to episode `229: The
Trend Forecast` right now!)

I must admit that I am relieved about _not having to_ write every day!
