---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 20 - Handmaid's Tale; Jane Austen plans; Office Space (1999)
categories: 100daysofwriting
---

> "I waited patiently - years - for the pendulum to swing the other way, for men
> to start *reading Jane Austen*, learn how to knit, pretend to love cosmos,
> organize scrapbook parties, and make out with each other while we leer. And
> then we'd say, Yeah, he's a Cool Guy." ― Amy Dunne, Gone Girl (Gillian Flynn)

This is one of those inner monologues that Amy has. The Jane Austen reference in
this line was incredibly interesting to me. Amy was such a great character! How
could you not be curious about what she really meant and what she really wanted
Nick to be like? Why did she settle for Nick?

Another question that I had when I watched the movie (which was answered in the
book): `Why did she move to Missouri with Nick if she wasn't into it?`. It was
like some sort of "complicated pay back" for her giving away most of her trust
fund money to her parents when their publisher drops them. That's what the move
was about. The reference to her being jettisoned, and her being unwanted luggage
and all that is an addition in the movie. The book takes a much subtler route to
show her disgruntlement with Nick over the move to Missouri and the reduction of
his involvement in the marriage.

[HackerNews](https://news.ycombinator.com/news) is a facinating place. It's like
Reddit but filled with a lot more articles, and much much more passionate
people, if you go by the comments. There is a _lot_ of disgust thrown at it,
though. I have seen HN being made fun of whenever the discussion takes a turn
for the worse and stops making sense. [Godwin's
Law](https://github.com/icyflame/awesome-social-science#godwins-law) seems like
a really good analogy to use here. (It has happened even in conversations where
there were enough paths to choose from for further discussion but people
inevitably chose to go ahead with the Nazi reference!)

I have started reading [Handmaid's Tale - Margaret
Atwood](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38447.The_Handmaid_s_Tale?from_search=true),
while a quick look at the synopsis pointed at something like a social commentary
(?), the reviews seem to compare it to 1984 (Orwell), which is terrifying to say
the least. I had to read P G Wodehouse and stay off of Dystopian books for
almost 4 months ever since I read 1984. I read Brave New World (Huxley) about 8
months after I completed reading 1984. Hmm, that's a long long time. Catch 22
was crazy too, but nowhere close to as impactful as 1984.

A fresh Rhythmbox on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS refuses to recognise MP3 files because it
needs to install "extra software", and that doesn't work because the "Main
Server for India" which is the default setting as the source for Software
Packages. I have just started installing `ubuntu-restricted-extras` from the
main Canonical server and it seems to be working fine. I hope it does though.

Despite all of this, what really blows my mind is VLC. VLC somehow just works. I
ran `sudo apt-get install -y vlc` and once VLC was installed, I can play any
normal format with it: MKV, MP4. The file could have any of the available video
and audio codecs, and it would work just fine. It's too bad VLC doesn't have a
counterpart that would maintain music libraries like Rhythmbox does. That would
be such a hit, it would be exactly like iTunes, but a whole lot faster!

**POST #20 is OVER**
