---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 100 - Shawshank Redemption + The Last Post in this series
categories: 100daysofwriting books endings
---

HELL YEAH, WE ARE FINALLY HERE.

(Prologue: This is going to be a normal Ep 100 post. My thoughts about this
series, the things I wrote about (and didn't), the days I really did write well
etc will all be covered in a different post.

![rita-hayworth](/public/img/day-100-1.jpg)

That is Rita Hayworth. She was the one that Andy Dufresne began with. For 27
years he toiled, and made it out. It's an amazing novella! I kind-of knew the
ending but was blocking it off so I could still enjoy the book. The revelation
is not the climax and I think that's where the story really excels. In telling
the story of two men, vastly different from each other, but stuck in an
unfavourable situation and still trying to make their way through life despite
it.

It also covers all the problems with the prison system, how it is designed and
what happens to incarcerated men after they are left outside, in the world. This
is a recurring theme that I have read about in a few books now. I remember
George Orwell's short story about a travelling nomad living and sleeping in
different beds each week. I remember [Down and Out in Paris and
London](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/1822935708?book_show_action=false&from_review_page=1), again by
Orwell, which talks an insane amount about how the poorest people lived in the
20th century, a bare 70-80 years ago. This is even slightly touched on in
Malcolm X's autobiography.

Here's [my goodreads
review](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2013088219?type=review#rating_119043364)
of the book. It's rather short at about 140-150 pages and I was able to finish
it off during a hectic week by just reading everything on my phone and not
waiting to settle down and read. I think that's the only way I can keep up with
reading and also manage work and life despite it. I _absolutely must_ use every
single moment of my waking time. It's cumbersome to do that, but _Onward and
Upward, that's the only way I can go now_.

I now have two completely new albums that I have discovered (led to, rather) and
like. The first one is **Silverstein's This is How the Wind Shifts**.

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gTB4bifBpgI?list=PLKAm0swRNcks78_pzDRDMmp4R4wxGwQE2"
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The second one is the album containing my recent favourite. **Incubus's If Not
Now, When?**

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aUrcKDqjYDY"
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I read Incubus' wikipedia page, and I was really surprised to find out that the
band was formed in 1991 when they were in high school! The 90s were indeed a
different place. I wonder how the high school bands of today are doing.

I am back to listening to Humbug now, in fact Cornerstone is playing the
background as I write down the last few words of this 100 day post series. It's
a bitter sweet moment. I am relieved to have finished off a challenge that I
took on on a whim and didn't give much consideration to. I slightly panicked
when I realised what I had committed to and wanted to get out. I settled down
after about 3 weeks and wrote about whatever I could find. I struggled for
content and had to make do with mediocre posts. And through all that, I still
wrote a 100 blog posts in 100 days. This is **BIG** for me!

## POST #100 is OVER
