---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 58 - Reddit karma now at 978, animals see themselves in a mirror and Gnome's weird semantic versioning conventions
categories: 100daysofwriting technology computers reddit
---

Today my Reddit comment karma increased a bit more. It _actually_ moved slowly
towards 1000. It's 978 right now. [This particular
comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/nottheonion/comments/65fu1n/why_one_republican_voted_to_kill_privacy_rules/dgai291/)
got me 388 KARMA! WHAT?! STAGGERING.

![img](/blog/public/img/day-58-1.png)

Anyway, I also read [an
article](http://nautil.us/issue/47/consciousness/what-do-animals-see-in-a-mirror-rp)
about how animals might recognise themselves in the mirror. The tests are
admittably absurd and although they appear legit, I feel like the opposition to
it have a very very valid point. Nonetheless, it's an interesting article and
you should definitely give it a read.

Nautilus is, in general, a great publication. I subscribed to their mailing list
which sends out emails every day (or more frequently?) with links to atleast 4-5
articles and I am never able to complete reading them by the end of the day.
That eventually ends up in a lot of unread email that never gets read and
eventually gets archived. I wish there was a simpler way to make a note of
articles that I really want to read (by looking at the headline and the first
few paragraphs of the article).

THe other Nautilus (File Manager on Ubuntu) that I [ranted about
yesterday](https://icyflame.github.io/blog/100daysofwriting/nautilus/missed/rant/ubuntu/update/open-mic/comedy/2017/04/14/day-56/)
became rather anti-climactic, when I posted the same thing on r/ubuntu and
u/TingPing promptly informed me that I didn't have the latest version of
Nautilus installed.

Gnome 3 uses a weird semantic versioning convention system that leads to 3.14
being the 7th major release (because only even numbers are major releases) and
the latest stable release is 3.24. Ubuntu apparently ships by default and only
allows the [older
release](https://websetnet.com/ubuntu-1604-lts-ship-older-version-nautilus/) to
be installed through their software repositories. The only way for me to fix
this right now is to download the source and build Nautilus for myself. If the
partition irritation is solved, then the ordeal would have been well worth it.

Initial build failed because of the absence of a package called gio2. I hope to
pick this up some time in the near future and see if building solves the
problem.

ONWARDS and UPWARDS! (George says this in a Seinfeld episode)

**POST #58 is OVER**
