---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 40 - Tweets analyser, Git analyser idea
categories: 100daysofwriting
---

I started reading Emma (Austen) today! The comforts of a story being linearly
narrated are manifold, I missed that! (Both my previous books were confused
narrations which switched here and there and totally left me in
reading-epilepsy, I liked that too, it's good to be back nonetheless) This story
is also written in late-18th century English with the whole flourish and the
Keira Knightley and Rosamund Pike-esque characters. Emma Woodhouse' introduction
was solid, Mr. Knightley just entered the scene!

<iframe width="1280" height="720"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SsmVgoXDq2w" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

(That applies to Tuesdays this semester)

Meanwhile, fun fact, _most_ of my previous posts have been really late, about 30
minutes before midnight or hours after midnight. I love Git for this extent of
statistics reporting that's built into it. For the longest time I have wanted to
build some kind of analyser or a gem of some sort which will use a ruby wrapper
for the Git binary and show some kind of "cool" statistics about projects.
Specifically, I wanted to use it to find out how "active" an open source project
was: how many new people contribute each week, how many contributors _return_
and contribute regularly, what kind of times do they work in between. I think
the last metric is especially important in finding out if a project is something
that the contributors do for work or pursue as personal projects.

This could also be done for Github users on their public repositories to see
what type of code they are writing and what time they are writing it in. All of
this is great talk, but

> Talk is cheap

So, this still remains in the "ideation" phase and never made it into the real
world. I found this repository through [this
article](https://blog.0day.rocks/you-will-be-surprised-by-what-your-tweets-may-reveal-about-you-and-your-habits-3bc907688bc8):
[x0rz/tweets_analyzer](https://github.com/x0rz/tweets_analyzer). Given a
username, it tries to find some stuff about the user, specifically it uses the
timezone, the times that the user often tweets in, the users that are most
interacted with and retweeted: this probably shows people that the user has
turned on notifications for (?) because it's next to impossible to continuously
retweet someone unless you are pinged each time they tweet something. Twitter is
an incredibly hard platform to just stay focused on one thing, if you follow a
few 100 people and then you scroll down for about 2 minutes, your feed updates
with 4-5 tweets and the blue dot next to the "HOME" icon is hard to ignore and
just keep browsing. This is how FOMO works, yes? (Note to myself: I should add
FOMO to the
[awesome-social-science](https://github.com/icyflame/awesome-social-science)
list that I maintain)

**POST #40 is OVER**
