---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Music and the Arctic Monkeys: Suck It and See
categories: music arctic-monkeys
---

**TL; DR** I perform some really amateurish analysis of some songs from Suck It
and See. I think they tell stories, if that's disturbing to you, leave right
now.

I have heard four albums of the Arctic Monkeys now, _properly_. The last two I
heard (not chronologically correct) were Humbug and Suck It and See. For almost
a year, the only two albums I had heard from AM were AM and their first album,
Favorite Worst Nightmare. The tones of these two albums was almost on two
opposite sides of the spectrum. AM was punchy and something like rock, without
quite being rock. FWN was Alt-Rock with some really really high tempo songs and
two slow ones in between.

Although I gave Humbug and Suck It and See a cursory listen a few months ago I
didn't really here it _properly_. And by that I mean I didn't listen to each
song again and again, analysing the lyrics, understanding the meaning and
internalising the story that the song was trying to communicate.

There's a lot to talk about here. First of all, in Suck It and See, I know
almost all the songs now and like all of them except for _Don't Sit Down Cause
I've Moved the Chair_. _Don't sit down..._ had a dark tone to it, almost like it
was a warning against listening to the rest of the song as soon as it starts.

Tracks 7 through 12 are all favourites. I can't choose between them. Track 4 is
the iconic _Hellcat Spangled Shalala_ and I would add that to my list of
favourites in this album also. I can't keep adding more tracks or else there
would be no distinction between the songs I like and the songs I like but won't
classify as favourites. (It's really confusing, I know)

_Love is a Laserquest_ has beautiful lyrics. The acoustic version that Alex
Turner plays in the KEXP Acoustic sessions is perhaps even better if you only
want to here the song in his unique, mouth watering accent.

```
Do you look into the mirror, to remind yourself you are there?
or are somebody's good night kisses got that covered?
When I am not being honest, I pretend that you are just some lover.

**I can't think of air without thinking of you!**
```

This song tells such a powerful story, about a guy who's been left by a girl, a
girl who has been with many people and treats love as nothing more than
something that is transient. "Singing dreadful songs about summer, well I found
a better method of pretending you were just some lover." The song ends too soon,
at 3:24, I wish it were a ballad.

_That's Where You're Wrong_ tells a more emotional story. A story, I honestly
can't quite understand. Perhaps there is a book explaining the song.

```
She looks as if she's throwing a kiss at me,
And suddenly the sky is a sizzler.
Sitting on the floor with a tambourine,
Crushing up a bundle of love.

Don't take it so personally,
you're not the only one,
that time has got it in for,
Honey, That's where you're wrong
```

I am hazarding a guess here, about what this song is about. Is it about a guy
telling a girl who's heart has been broken one too many times, that she's not
the only one who's had it happen to her? Perhaps, it's the same guy who was
lamenting about his girlfriend in _Love is a Laserquest_?

I guess that's enough BS about songs and their lyrics. Arctic Monkeys are great,
listen to their songs. If you like them enough, write a blog post about them and
send me a link, I am eager to read a lot of people write about what these songs
mean to each of them.
