---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 25 - Quarter of the way there!
categories: 100daysofwriting writing
---

I am 25% there. That's one part in four, I just need to do the thing that I have
already done, 3 times over. Sounds doable, from here on atleast! I just wish I
don't miss a day in between. I missed one day in between till now, and that was
not even the day I was *most tired* on. In fact, the days that I was most tired
on, turned out to be the challenging ones when I struggled to write the 500
words and `git add` and `git commit` and `git push`.

I would like to talk a little bit about the encrypted FS setup that I have got
going on, in my computer right now. It's been about a week (or two?) since I
installed Ubuntu 16.04, and I setup two encrypted partitions when I was
installing it. Now, the dust has settled for the most part, and it is looking
**good** now! This post is a continuation of [the post on day
15](https://icyflame.github.io/blog/100daysofwriting/writing/ubuntu/installation/2017/03/04/day-15/).

I added these two volumes to `/etc/crypttab` and to `/etc/fstab`.

**/etc/crypttab**
```
partname UUID=... none luks,nofail
```

Here, the `luks` and `nofail` in the last argument are VERY IMPORTANT. Without
the `nofail` flag set in that argument, the boot fails because it couldn't find
the right password for that block device. Also, the `none` must be spelled out
so that Ubuntu will interactively ask you for your password. This is only one
part of the setup though, only adding this will also lead to boot failure. More
on how to recover from there later.

**/etc/fstab**
```
/dev/mapper/partname /media/username/mountpt ext4 defaults 0 2
```

The `partname` is automatically referred once the block device has been unlocked
using LUKS and there are two parts of the partition now (the decrypted one is
mounted at the provided mountpoint).

Not doing any of the above steps properly, will lead to a failure in the boot
process. What this means, is that the boot will simply fail and bring you to a
black screen (sometimes the screen also has text, I was a little bit panicked
to check what was going on on that screen).

A simple way to get out of this is to boot into Ubuntu in the recovery mode, and
from there get a root shell. This root shell only has read-only access to the
disk. So, from here, you should run something like `reboot` which will restart
your computer. There is a sequence of commands that can be run here to get you
to a root shell **with** write access to the disk. I used this sequence to reset
the `fstab` and `crypttab` files to their default values when I ran into
trouble. Unfortunately, I can't remember what that sequence is. I am sorry if
this part is so unhelpful.

I can only say that rebooting was definitely part of the process, and then
something like "continue boot" in the recovery mode list.

Once on this write-access enabled root shell, you can do one of two things

1. Rollback all changes to these two files, and restart. This will definitely
   work all the time. You can simply make the right changes and then restart to
   get it to work properly again

2. If you are feeling adventurous, then you could change the files in this root
   shell and reboot. If you have made the right set of changes, the interactive
   password prompt will come up.

If you don't enter anything in the interactive password prompt for a long time,
then it goes to a blank screen. There's absolutely nothing on that screen. I
had to pull the plug and restart both times that I ran into this problem. No
clue whether there is a better way to pull the computer out of this situation.

One thing that I have not yet tested is what happens when you enter the wrong
password in the interactive prompt.

**POST #25 is OVER**
