---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 31 - Handmaid's Tale story revelation at 55%; 
categories: 100daysofwriting {TODO3}
---

Ah, finally! FINALLY! 55% into the book, Margaret Atwood thought it appropriate
to reveal the circumstances that lead to the world that Offred and Ofglen and
Of* live in. It was terrifying! I think I can now see where the comparison to
1984 comes from. I can't really talk about it here without marking it as a
spoiler for _everyone_ who plans to read this book, so I would much rather talk
about it once I have read the whole book and this particular event has more
context around it. That said, this is a great book, I can make that judgement on
the basis of whatever I have read till now. It has been amazing! Sure, the
author took a lot of time to get to the backstory, but the story that she _did_
spend her time on was also interesting and worth reading.

Personally, I like books that keep the readers on their toes all the time by
changing the setting, going into long monologues that compare a small feature of
the present situation from something in the character's backstory, essentially
introducing the backstory and _at the same time_ showing the readers what the
character is thinking about, and what her mindset is. These books are pretty
challenging and fun to read.

The next thing that I worked on today was the [GC Visualization
prototype](https://github.com/icyflame/gc-viz). The status quo looks something
like this:

![img](/blog/public/img/day-31-1.png)

![img](/blog/public/img/day-31-2.png)

The white space on the right side of the webpage in the above screenshot is
where the stacked bar graph _should_ have been.

The prototype that I built looks like this:

[![img](/blog/public/img/day-31-3.png)](https://icyflame.github.io/gc-viz/)

[![img](/blog/public/img/day-31-4.png)](https://icyflame.github.io/gc-viz/sports)

There are some major improvements over the previous page. One word: **SPEED**

It's been about 2 minutes since I opened the Awaaz IIT KGP page, and the Google
Visualization graph hasn't yet loaded on Chrome 56 Linux x64. In fact, I think
it is never going to load now. There are quite a few errors in the JS console.

D3.js is all about speed! It's an incredibly small library and there are a
[LOT](https://bost.ocks.org/mike/bar/) [of
tutorials](https://bost.ocks.org/mike/bar/2/) related to every single topic in
D3. In fact, the code that I have used in the second stacked bar graph above has
been directly copied from a bl.ocks.org created by the author of the linked
tutorials. He has [a lot of other](https://bl.ocks.org/mbostock) samples that he
has put up on BLOCKS.

D3.js also offers two modes, HTML and SVG. The HTML mode is plain HTML made to
look like Graphs! SVGs are of course related to more complex charts, but for the
simple bar chart shown in the first screenshot above, I have simply used the
HTML bar chart! It's FAST!

Another logistical improvement for whoever is adding data to the website is that
the data is stored in CSV files, which can be directly exported from an existing
Excel sheet. Right now, the data is stored inside javascript lists like this
one:

```
    var halls =
    [
      ["hall","Athletics","Cricket","Chess","Squash","Football",
      "Weightlifting","{role: 'annotation'}"],
      ["MS",20,10,5,0,0,0,35],
      ["RP",8,6,3,6,2,0,25],
      ["Azad",0,0,1,2,10,10,23],
      ["RK",0,4,0,0,4,6,14],
      ["LBS",12,0,0,0,0,0,12],
      ["HJB",0,0,0,10,0,0,10],
      ["Nehru",4,0,2,0,0,2,8],
      ["JCB",0,0,0,0,6,0,6],
      ["Patel",0,2,0,0,0,4,6],
      ["MMM",0,0,0,4,0,0,4]
    ];
```

Whereas a CSV file is far easier to handle. Adding a new event here would
require adding a column at the second last place (unless this has been exported
from some CSV file using another script, which is TOTALLY possible).

In any case, I have sent the prototypes out to some people. Hopefully, I can
get this on the Awaaz Website as an alternative way to view the General
Championship scores. This kind of a visualization improvement would make score
tracking and following developments very very easy!

This being a prototype, there are definitely improvements that can be made in
this. Most importantly, the colors. Right now, I have just used the six colors
obtained from combinating `ff` around the 3 places that are available. And then
using it twice. The colors are easily recognizable, but they are still really
bright and that's probably not the best way to do this. (I wish I would
understand how to pick the right colors!)

Going back to the book, I hope that I can complete reading this book this week.
After this, I plan to read a book by Jane Austen (see [Day 20: ... Jane Austen
plans ...](https://icyflame.github.io/blog/100daysofwriting/2017/03/09/day-20/).

**POST #31 is OVER**
