---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 97 - The Circle - complete review
categories: 100daysofwriting movies adaptations emma karen gillan
---

I watched The Circle. **It's a movie everyone _needs_ to watch**

The movie touches on some of the core concepts of privacy and does a really
really good job of putting a clear LINE where transparency begins and
privacy ends. They do it in an obscure fashion with no direct references, main
characters who are incredibly skewed in their personalities, visions and with
motives unknown to the audience. Money might be a driving factor, but Tom
Hanks' character and the guy Tom Stenton, they have LOTS of data, I wonder if
money is their only over reaching goal.

Anyway, putting all of that aside, it's a great cautionary tale of what happens
when people start believing that what's not on the internet and events whose
memories are only held in a person or a few people's memories might as well have
never happened because there is no record of them!

**SATIRE!** I want to call this movie a satire, but the typical absurdity of
satire and the explicit references to things that are outlandish and obviously
impossible is lacking. The ending is very dystopian and 1984. (I wonder if the
writer / director were influenced by that book. The movie ends with people _not_
having telescreens forced on them, but _voluntarily_ putting cameras in front of
them for the whole day. They are _allotted_ time for bathroom breaks of 3
minutes. "Bathroom lighting is the best lighting a selfie can ever have" - A
wise woman once discovered.)

After 60 minutes of the movie, the tide was slowly turning and all the ominous
events of the second half of the movie were on the horizon. As the movie stopped
for the interval, and the lights came on, one man summed up this movie in a
couple words:

## Scary, huh?

The first half of Mae Holland is where most people are at right now. Not too
famous, overwhelmed at how many people are interested in their daily activities
which to them have been routine and mundane forever, not too worried about who
is watching what, not realising that they have lost privacy simply because they
have location turned on on their phone, or post geotagged photos to facebook or
twitter unknowingly. (Twitter used to strip away all location information from
photographs, I saw a TED Talk about this once. I don't know if their policies
have changed now though, I hope they still strip information by default and make
sharing location a little bit harder so people explicitly have to do it)

All of this said, the ending is a bit confused. She says "Secrets are lies" in
the beginning of the movie, she releases all of her bosses' emails, everything
is out there in the open. But the ending shows her waking up, saying good
morning to the camera and then zooms out to show a collage of millions of other
camera frames that look very similar. They outed the bosses, but they still
couldn't stop the loss of privacy? I don't get it. I will definitely watch the
stream the movie and watch it again, maybe things will be clearer then.

A special mention for Karen Gillan's performance of Annie's character! The
make-up, her disheveled hair during the middle part of the movie, the wrinkles
under her eyes and her final "going-back-to-normal" once she goes back home is a
treat to watch on screen!

**POST #97 is OVER**
