---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 72 - BHIM Aadhaar pay lacks a second factor; Elliot's paranoid nature
categories: 100daysofwriting aadhaar security privacy fingerprints biometric
---

Churning out two in a row, today. I am 3 books behind schedule, as of this
writing. Today was perhaps the cut-off day for the third day!

Recently, I read this article about Aadhaar and how the core biometric database
of _a lot_ of Indians that is now held by UIDAI is secured, and will be handled
in the future.

I have been reading a lot of material about Aadhaar, UID, UIDAI lately, and all
of it has been pretty grim. With the introduction of things like [BHIM Aadhaar
Pay](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/with-new-govt-app-use-fingerprint-to-pay/articleshow/58188140.cms)
which requires the merchant to enter the Aadhaar number, and the customer to
use their fingerprint for making a payment, it seems like Aadhaar will be a part
of all of our lives, whether we like it or want it or not.

BHIM Aadhaar Pay is especially insecure because of the absence of a second
factor. The only thing that is required is a fingerprint, and even The Verge
wrote [an
article](http://www.theverge.com/2016/5/2/11540962/iphone-samsung-fingerprint-duplicate-hack-security)
about this. It was pretty eye opening. Play Doh is a toy for kids, they make
stuff with it, and now it's being used once the fingerprint has been created as
a fake finger? DERP.

This [Guardian
article](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/dec/30/hacker-fakes-german-ministers-fingerprints-using-photos-of-her-hands)
has more information about the guy who got the German minister's fingerprint
using just her high-res photos.

Well, Elliot converted E-Corp to Evil Corp in his mind. Elliot was paranoid as
hell and destroyed his whole setup even at the slight doubt of someone having
figured him out. Elliot also mis-labelled his CDs as old rock albums to create
an efficient smoke screen that worked rather well (because the people he hung
out with weren't into _that_ kind of music). It pays to be paranoid, apparently.

**POST #72 is OVER**
