---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 8 - mfqp, mfqp-source, Alison from Pretty Little Liars
categories: 100daysofwriting writing
---

SATURDAY! Ah, the weekend is here. I am not terribly excited _about_ the
weekend, as much as I am about the fact that it is FINALLY here. The last week
was mid-terms, and then three days of project work and classes and the routine
sinking back in. So, a bit hectic, huh.

Today, I will talk about this project that I have been working on for about 10
months now. It's called [mfqp-source](https://github.com/metakgp/mfqp-source).
It's related to [mfqp](https://github.com/metakgp/mfqp).

So, mfqp is a previous year question paper search platform. It was built by
[@amrav](https://github.com/amrav). mfqp-source is a way to crowd source
question papers from the students who are giving exams in IIT Kharagpur, and get
it online, so that people in the future can look at those papers and prepare a
little bit better then they actually would have in case they didn't have the
papers. Also, it's just easier to prepare for an exam here, if you know what
_kind_ of questions are asked.

mfqp-source was started by [Vivek Aithal](https://github.com/nuwandavek), and I
took it up as a pet project of mine because I loved the idea and wanted to work
with something like this: It's challenging because people don't behave like you
want them to, it required structure because that's the only way we could sift
through the hundreds of email we were sure to recieve, and it would involve
writing scripts that would work with Gmail and some cloud hosting platform to
host the crowd-sourced papers. So, I took it up.

I have been working on it for the past two semesters, and we have gotten a lot
of papers on mfqp. It's being used by a lot of people on campus as the way to
get the question papers! That's great! In the 2 weeks leading up to the past mid
term exam session, there were a total of about 6500 sessions, by about 2700
users. (6583 sessions and 2787 users) I just looked up the figures as I was
writing this post, so it's a surprise for me too, and these figures are pretty
good! (on a campus with a total of about 10,000 people which includes
technicians, professors, Research Scholars, masters students _and_ bachelors
students)

So, that was about the project and the reach. The idea for this project, atleast
in the beginning was to provide a live view of the papers that have been
contributed by everyone and build some kind of a goal and then work towards
that. That became pretty hard, pretty fast. We tried to keep up, but it was just
too much work and no one could keep up, so that was eventually dropped, and it
just became a project to parse everything that was sent to us, create pdfs,
rename it properly and then upload it to drive, and add the link of the file
alongwith it's particulars to MFQP. That was a lot easier to do and I have been
keeping up with that.

Hmm, so that was some free material to write about. I read a bit more of All the
Missing Girls today. Finally, a little bit more was revealed about Corinne.
She's definitely the alpha-female, loyalty-hungry character that Alison is in
Pretty Little Liars (I endured the show for 4 seasons until I got really really
really bored with it, I wish I had read the books first though). I don't know
what it is with characters like Alison and books like this.

Books like Girls on Fire (Wasserman), The Girls (Cline), Dark Places (Flynn),
all of these books have a similar character, but not exactly her. The main
difference being that Corinne and Alison are the leaders of their posse, and
they are not charming or charismatic, what they are is irritating. They listen
to their (generally not good looking or somehow inferior) friends and rack up
the secrets that they have to tell them, and then use those secrets against the
very girls that treated them like living Gods. It's the last part that really
pisses me off.

Anyway, it's rather premature to pass a judgement on Corinne I think. The quote:

> You had to keep proving your loyalty to her

that Nicolette says makes it clear that she wasn't an easy person to be friends
with, but I still guess there's a wee bit of leeway for Corinne to be something
like Diondra and less like Alison.

P.S. Sasha Pieterse does an incredible job playing this stupidly irritating
character, so maybe the show Alison is as irritating and hateful as she is
simply because Pieterse played her so well! I SOOOOO wonder what my thoughts
about Alison would have been if only I had read the books first.

**POST #8 is OVER**
