---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 3 - Rachmaninoff; "Someday" lists on your iPhone
categories: 100daysofwriting writing piano music classical-piano programming
---

The two topics for today's post are completely unrelated.

I write this to the background music of the second movement of Piano Concerto
no. 2 by Sergei Rachmaninoff, played by [Alexandre
Tharaud](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zRi1smZ9Il8). This is such an amazing
piece of classical music. I play the piano, I am rather an amateur at it under
Classical Piano playing skills and standards, but I have atleast heard Classical
music to some extent, and this particular concerto (much like Mozart's Early
Symphonies, which I will eventually have to talk about because I am running out
of things to write about. This exercise will certainly end up making me creative
at the very least, I hope) is by far Rachmaninoff's most famous work. I saw this
lecture on this piano concerto by [Paul
Davies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EPETreJpx2o) and it was so enlightening!

This is a piece of classical music, which means that it has an inherent
structure (I learned from this lecture) that was considered to be appropriate
for concertos in the time that this piece was composed. And Rachmaninoff tried
to deviate from it a bit in the first movement by accompanying the orchestra
himself, instead of playing the major parts himself. AMAZING!

My favourite parts of this piece are in decreasing order the subtle piano at the
beginning of the second movement, the ill-fate-predicting chords at the very
beginning of the first movement and the flute (?) part that plays on top of the
piano in the second movement starting at around 1:10 in the version played by
Tharaud.

Now, why am I talking about all of this? Because I wanted to understand
classical piano music. It doesn't have lyrics, it doesn't have a _music video_,
but it is music nonetheless and certainly wants to convey some meaning. The
change in tempo in each of the movements, the very separation of the piece into
movements, and the interaction between the pianist (the main act) and the
orchestra (the accompanying, sometimes main, act), all of this perhaps holds a
deeper meaning. I wish to someday understand what that means, I wish to someday
listen to Piano Concerto no. 2 or one of Mozart's symphonies or the Hungarian
Rhapsody and understand the pain / jubilation / conflict that the composer felt
when he was composing that piece!

And that leads me nicely into the next thing that I intend to talk about in this
post:

![day-3-1](/public/img/day-3-1.png)

The **Someday** list on all TODO List managing applications. A lot of people
have this kind of a list somewhere: Trello, Evernote, iOS Notes, Google Docs, or
a diary in which they have written down a bucket list that is a list of the
things that they want to do _someday_. When will this someday come? No clue.
Will you know that this someday has come and gone if it does present itself?
Doubtful. Why did you file something inside _Someday_? Oh, now, that's easy. I
filed it there _because I can't do it now_.

But if you can't do it now, why do you happen to think that you might be able to
do it someday? Um. Oh!

That was the fictional conversation that I had with myself when I realised that
I was going to add a card inside this Someday list. And that was exactly what
stopped me from adding a card there. If I obsess over something because I want
to do it and I haven't written it down anywhere, I haven't put it anywhere for
safekeeping, I feel that there is a larger chance of my going out there and
doing it. 

Compare that to the secure feeling I have when I file something I want to do in
the Someday list and forget all about it until I finally decide, one fine
afternoon when I am incredibly bored, to scroll over to that list and the flame
is re-kindled.

But then, I came up with the counter argument to this too! What about when
people say that the best way to do something is to get started. Write stuff
down, start planning, start marking out dates on the calender, start counting
down to the D-Day. Well, then, put that in the _DO IN THE NEXT MONTH_ or the _DO
IN THE NEXT 6 MONTHS_ or the _DO THIS YEAR_ lists. NOT in the Someday list.

There is indeed something that I want to do. There are many loose ends whcih are
slightly related to the this thing right now, and I want to tie them all up
before I start planning this. I am pretty sure that this is a great way to
procrastinate. Because I am excited and nervous and scared and a little bit more
scared to start planning it and take concrete steps towards doing it. Once I
take those steps, I would have reached the:

![day-3-2](/public/img/day-3-2.jpg)

**POST #3 is OVER**
