---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 79 - Cruising Attitude - Heather Poole
categories: 100daysofwriting books poole
---

(May 9th, 2317 GMT+5.5)

I read Cruising Attitude today. I did that the whole day, I read about 53% of
it. It is a book by Heather Poole about her foray into the Airline industry and
talks about a lot of the intricacies of the flight attendant job, the training,
the appearance that is almost always impeccable, the language, their body
language, their walk through the terminal (!!).

The book featured in a recent NY Times article about what flight attendants
learn about at de-escalation training, and at 260 pages, it seemed like a really
good idea to start reading that book and finish it off as soon as I can. (I am
running 3 books behind schedule on my Goodreads Reading challenge. I don't see
any holes in the next few months to be able to patch that up. PUSH NOW!)

The first half of it was really funny. It was also _not_ coherent. It felt like
amateurish writing with phrases repeated within the space of a 2 pages, which is
more of an editing glitch, I think. But the fact that the writer is an amateur
is not lost on me.

She has tried to tell a great story, which is commendable considering that it
might have been just as easy for her to just write a few chapters and make each
chapter about one particular incident and gloss over her own personal experience
as the first chapter.

The concentration on her friends and fellow flight attendants till now has been
indicative of the amount of sisterhood and comaradery that she feels about them.
Including those she was at flight attendant training (which she prefers to call
_Barbie Bootcamp_) with.

I hope to be able to finish off this book in the near future and move on to more
ambitious reading projects. (This is certainly a day-off book with such easy
reading and a bare bones, easy to follow plot) I started this book with the hope
to really understand what flight attendants think and feel when they are on a
flight and in charge of about 50 passengers each. That goal **will** be
fulfilled by the end of this book, HEATHER POOLE, KUDOS!

**POST #79 is OVER**
