---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 96 - Shawshank Redemption - getting to the end
categories: 100daysofwriting books king shawshank
---

> The second type of guy knows that there is no harm in hoping for the best as
> long as you are prepared for the worst

(p. 88, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption -- Stephen King)

I have known this particular phrase / quote for a long time now. I finally found
the source (or it could be older than even this book!) In any case, it is a
_GREAT_ quote to live by.

(27th May, 2017) I have now read about 100-110 pages of the book. Dufresne has
made the escape, Red is merely tying up all the knots. I have read the whole
book (almost) on my phone, and I didn't check where the book ends. So I am going
by the rough metric that this book is about 180 pages long, I could be horribly
wrong. I would prefer for the book to be shorter. Not because the book is bad
(IT'S NOT!) but because a book ending before you expected it to is rather
convenient! (considering that I am two books behind schedule, I would like to
keep it that way atleast and not fall back even further!)

The book has been **surprisingly graphic** and I am glad I didn't watch the
movie. I will probably not watch the movie even after because I know the story
and only the gory details of him coming into the prison, the sisters etc will be
new to me.

(24th May, 2017) I am booked for a showing of The Circle tomorrow night. It has
been rather shady movie till now. Except for the fact that Emma Watson joins a
company led by Tom Hanks and that the company is doing something with incredibly
small cameras and a speech that ends with

> Knowing is good, but knowing everything is better

I know nothing about the premise. _Alien: Covenant_ was the exact same thing to
me, I hadn't even read the plot synopsis anywhere before going to the movie
because I thought it would give away too much. I have watched The Circle's
trailer and it's suspiciously less tech and more gimicks and punch lines.
Companies that do that are generally upto no good. Detailed review of The Circle
coming up tomorrow.

**POST #96 is OVER**
