---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 14 - MISSED; Age of Adaline, Backing up and nautilus ETAs
categories: 100daysofwriting writing late-post
---

ARGH! I succumbed to it. But now I am twice as determined as before to not miss
another day. (Technically, I am not missing yesterday because I am going to
write two posts at 2017-03-04 23:20 UTC+5.5. But I definitely missed posting
yesterday, and I am going to refuse to let that happen!) Also, this post is
going to be as if I wrote it last night, that's the only sane way to write this
so that the series will make sense at a later time.

Today is the D-Day for the upgraded installation of Ubuntu 16.04 LTS. Atleast,
it should have been. But it didn't work out! I couldn't get the backups on time.

I had to copy about 27 GB + 1.5 GB data to different partitions on the main hard
drive and an external hard drive. I posted [this series of tweets and
pictures](https://twitter.com/_icyflame/status/837702801178271745) 
about my experience with the copying thing. Basically, the estimates
that Nautilus gave me were just plain wrong. _LIES, Jimmy LIES!_

Meanwhile, I was watching Age of Adaline. It was such a great movie! The trailer
is pretty shady, with her not aging and all that, the beginning is a bit weird
considering the amount of story that is conveyed in voice-over. But as the movie
goes on and we get to know Adaline / Jenny well, and Harrison Ford comes into
the picture, their flashback etc, the movie gets really good! It's one of those
movies that redeems itself as time goes on! I definitely wish I could have seen
that in a movie theater, I don't know why, there weren't a lot of _great_ or
_theater screen_ worthy scenes or anything, but it just felt like the kind of
movie that would stick with you forever if you had seen it in a theatre. Like
Titanic. (Titanic stuck with everyone no matter where they saw it. Well, so much
for finding a good analogy.)

While this backing up process was going on, I also managed to make significant
progress in Big Little Lies. I also saw that the episodes are literally being
released this week, there have been 2 or 3 already released and the remaining
will be released in the next few weeks! Now, I **absolutely must** complete the
book this weekend and catch up on the series. Reese Witherspoon is absolutely
stunning in the first episode's thumbnail (is she Celeste? God, that suspense is
different and almost equal to the suspense of who was murdered! That information
has been carefully hidden till now.)

Also, the Celeste thing in the book is so surprising! I never pegged her for the
kind of person who would plan years and years into the future. You know what I
am talking about, I bet there has to be a reason for that, right! A reason there
almost certainly has to be for her line "Once the boys have given their last
high-school exam, ..."

**BIG LITTLE LIES SPOILERS: YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED**


Celeste says that she will leave her husband Perry as soon as Max and Josh (her
twin sons) are done with high school! Why? No clue, I will wait for the reason
to be revealed!

**POST #14 is OVER**
