---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 85 - Devastating global ransomware attack(??), Node.js event loop
categories: 100daysofwriting
---

A global ransomware attack and the oppurtunity to see it play out in real time?
Wow, that's scary and exciting, no offence to everyone who was affected. It
sucks big time, but as someone who is fascinated by how these things start and
how they spread, it is particularly of interest to me.

The exploit was a Windows port 445 SMB loophole that the NSA _apparently_ knew
about but disclosed to everyone only after their recent leak. Snowden quickly
took to twitter to criticise them for reducing the amount of time that everyone
had to prepare because they disclosed the exploit's existence so late.

The way it spread (and the way people were affected) is of more interest to me,
because that is what everyone should be on the look out for and _not do_ when
the situation arises. Clicking on spam emails and attachments is a security
NO-NO that has been re-iterated ever since the existence of Spam emails. As one
article pointed out, "It was surprising that NHS computers got affected because
NHS employees are instructed not to open spam-looking emails."

There is some talk about how the worm mainly spread through networks inside
businesses where people might have been running outdated software for legacy
support reasons.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8aGhZQkoFbQ"
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

My internship at Elanic is mainly Node.js backend till now. This talk is a
_pretty good_ primer on _how_ Node.js really works. There are some old Ryan Dahl
talks about his philosophy when he was building Node.js and why he thought
non-blocking asynchronous I/O was the way to go for building web applications as
compared to the synchronous PHP way of `db.query(...)` that was popular in those
days. I found his talks to be a bit too dry, and being old, they were also not
in HD which made the metrics he was showing rather hard to make sense of.

Nginx apparently runs using an Event loop and uses only a single thread of
execution as compared to Apache's one-thread-per-request model. While that
should ensure a significant increase in performance if one switches from Apache
to Nginx for a lot of concurrent users on a site, one of the major hurdles is
how hard it is to setup Nginx properly compared to the basic configuration of
Apache, which is literally just a couple of `apt-get install` steps.

An nginx reverse proxy to setup Node.js applications seems to be the [weapon of
choice](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-a-node-js-application-for-production-on-ubuntu-14-04#install-pm2)
for people wanting to setup ExpressJS REST APIs, but the scaling part of this
setup is something that needs to be managed manually and perhaps providers like
Heroku would do a better job at this. At $7 a month compared to Digital Ocean's
slightly cheaper but vastly smaller $5 a month droplet, the difference in costs
is perhaps not too decisive at a small scale and would not justify the time that
would go into working on scaling servers, compared to developing things.

**POST #85 is OVER**
