---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 26 - Communication on Slack;
categories: 100daysofwriting communication programming
---

Today, I wrote
[this](https://wiki.metakgp.org/w/User:Icyflame/Unsolicited_advice_to_future_maintainers)

_START REPOST_

### Other *important* things I learnt along the way

**Listen to others, think before you start typing**

Slack and IM make communication easy ... and complicated. Let me explain:

1.  **Communication is easy** if the parties communicating have a common goal,
    and are putting in a non-trivial amount of effort into keeping the
    conversation sane, unblocking themselves and getting to that common goal.
2.  **Communication is easy** if the parties communicating have conflicting
    goals, but listen to the other party and are willing to change their stance
    if reasonable, technically sound arguments are posed.
3.  **Communication is easy** if the parties communicating have opposite goals,
    are unwilling to change their stance, but would still comply with someone
    else's opinion because of their inherent belief that the other person is
    more experienced than them.
4.  **Communication is complicated** if one of the parties communicating is
    responding without reading and understanding the points being made in a
    discussion.
5.  **Communication is complicated** if one of the parties doesn't know enough
    to comment about something but still chooses to do so. See [Dunning Kruger
    Effect].
6.  **Communication is complicated** if an inexperienced party pretends to know
    *how often something might happen*, despite the experienced party clearly
    explaining the reasons for their claim. (See [Dunning Kruger Effect])
7.  **Communication is complicated** if one of the parties is not interested in
    reading the points that are being made or have been made in the past by the
    other parties and their only interest is to propagate their own point of
    view, because of reasons such as: ease, naivete, lack of the required
    experience

**If a solution approach seems complicated, Don't shy away from it. Embrace
it.**

Does a proposed solution to a given problem sound very complex and extremely
time-consuming? Don't shy away from it. Try to get it done. Really try, spend
your time (and money) doing it.

Most of the times, you will solve the problem. Or you will come really close to
it! That's good enough for the first time you do something complicated.

But a few of the times, things won't work out. You ended up totally wasting your
time. But is it really a waste of time?

You just discovered a very complex solution to a problem. If it is a common
problem, why isn't there an easier solution? Investigate, solve, spread the
word. You just made life easier for a lot of people.

And in all the other cases, you just learned that something was very
complicated. So complicated that you can probably share your experience about
doing it, once you manage to crack it. *That's one hell of a story to tell
everyone!*

_END REPOST_

Okay, story time! About the second part. I can speak about it confidently
because I have had it happen to me once, and I chose to embrace the approach and
everything worked out fine in the beginning.

There was this one time, where I wrote a Rails application. It was called the
[mentorship portal](https://github.com/icyflame/mentorship-rails). It is a
portal to facilitate communication between Students and Alumni through the
Student Alumni Mentorship Programme. I chose to write it in Ruby on Rails with
help from [Rahul Mishra](https://github.com/light94). It was a pretty big Rails
application and I was soon losing track of how the development was going, I
learnt a lot more about Rails. But alas, deployment is where it really takes the
centre stage.

The most famous method of deploying Rails on a LAMP stack seemed to be with
[Phusion Passenger](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/). And thus, it began. You
might want to let this song play in the background while you read the account. I
have found that this song makes a lot of accounts a lot more fun to read because
it is fast paced, and nostalgia wells up:

<iframe width="854" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uGz6fQYskjY"
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I installed Ruby and Rails on the server. Apache was already installed, I knew
nothing about reverse proxying or apache configuration files till now. I knew
that you had to define the root of your websites in the apache configuration
files. That was the extent of my knowledge.

I was following a much older (and uglier) version of [this
doc](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/walkthroughs/deploy/ruby/ownserver/apache/oss/install_language_runtime.html)
on their website. The present documentation of this process seems to be really
nice!

Installation went through smoothly. Though there are two challenges here that I
would like to mention: The server didn't have "full" internet, it is behind a
HTTP proxy server. The server doesn't have any mailing access, there are no
other mail relays which have been configured to be used by default.

The most important step till now, is the addition of the `VirtualHost` tag to
the appropriate configuration file. There was a bit of a struggle trying to find
out exactly which one I wanted to add the code to. And I struggled a little bit
more to understand what exactly would be the "replacements" that I would have to
make to make the piece of code that's there on their website to work.

The problem with replacements is that they don't cover corner cases, like ours.
We had a subdomain which had to be prefixed with `www` to be access from outside
the institute network, and not prefixed with it to work from inside the campus.
I see that the documentation still doesn't cover the case on what to do for
subdomains. I think we finally solved by adding a `ServerAlias` attribute inside
the `VirtualHost` tag.

All in all, this must have taken about a week's worth of 4 hours a day
scratching my head about what to do, searching and going through a LOT of
StackOverflow answers and reading the documentation again and again to try to
find some hidden insight into what might be the problem: A did-you-know box that
would magically tell me what I had missed.

(I realise now that I have made it sound a little bit too easy, perhaps! But
considering that I am writing this 2 years after the fact, I am happy with the
detail I could get.)

Oh, I forgot to mention that there **was** a blog post that I wrote then.
Presenting [Deploying on an in-house server
(RANT)](https://icyflame.github.io/blog/web-development/2015/05/01/deploying-on-an-inhouse-server/)
dated 1st May, 2015. I have really invested myself in ranting about deploying on
in-house servers!

**POST #26 is OVER**

  [Dunning Kruger Effect]:
  https://github.com/icyflame/awesome-social-science#dunning-kruger-effect-dke

