---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 4 - Books made into Movies
categories: 100daysofwriting writing reading gone-girl gillian-flynn
---

I didn't do anything today. I woke up, ate breakfast, prepared for the exam I
had, gave the exam from 2 pm - 4 pm, then came back and watched Veep for about 2
hours (time that I should probably have used to read this new book that I got.
[All the Missing Girls by Megan
Miranda](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23212667-all-the-missing-girls).
This book is supposed to be a mix of The Girl On The Train (Hawkins) which is
now also a movie. The movie was great, although the narration could have been a
little bit less book-like. They literally copied the chapter names over, put
them on the screen, showed us their perspective. The movie was underwhelming in
general, I don't know why I kept expecting more. OH!

You see, I was struggling to find something to write about today. This was
precisely why I started this, to force myself to think for about 30 minutes each
day. And I hit on this! "Books made into Movies". 

The fundamental problem/gift (depending on how you look at it) with this kind of
an approach is that a non-creative rendition of my thoughts and aspirations and
what-not can only be kept up for so long. Definitely a lot less than 100 days,
so eventually I am going to have to come up with some creative thing that I can
talk about. Or, take the easier way out, and _do something_ that I can talk
about! Both these outcomes are totally agreeable for me, and that's what my aim
with this thing is!

Okay, to the topic at hand. _Books made into movies_. I have two specific
experiences that are very different and worth talking about. A disclaimer here
is that I loved all the books that I am going to talk about. So there might be a
slight bias where I support the book and the author a lot more than I do the
script-writer and the director and the producer of the movie.

The common theme in all these books is that they are of the
[psychological-thriller](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/44525691-siddharth?shelf=psycho-thriller)
variety.  I like this genre a lot and have read a few books that fall inside
this genre.

### Gone Girl

I saw the movie first, and then, recently, last December or thereabouts, I read
the bo.  I like this genre a lot and have read a few books that fall inside this
genre.

### Gone Girl

I saw the movie first, and then, recently, last December or thereabouts, I read
the book. Definitely, I like the book a lot better. But I will also proudly
claim that throughout the book, Ben Affleck was the book Nick Dunne as well for
me. His casting was perfect: handsome, can pull off a writer (Affleck can
probably pull off any character though!), and tall. Rosamund Pike was the cold
and calculating book Amy Dunne for me too. Her casting again was so to-the-point
and expected: pretty, shady enough to rouse suspicion, NYC enough to pull off
the cocky attitutde once she moves back to Nick's hometown.

I liked the book just because it was so much more intimate. I really got to know
the characters. Characters that I had loved from watching and re-watching the
Gone Girl movie, after absolutely falling in love with it since the first time I
watched it when I was holding my breath until the revelation is made! I
understood why Amy didn't like coming back, I understood why Nick is definitely
not as good as he is portrayed in the book, in fact, I actually felt that he
isn't all good, it was a feeling I had when I was reading the book. I don't know
why I had it, and I don't what to pin-point it on now, [my
review](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/1458734842?book_show_action=false&from_review_page=1)
although enlightening, doesn't talk about Nick.

So, intimacy with the characters. That's the thing that did it for me. If I can
really get to know Amy and Nick and Go, then I can understand why it happened
and I can understand whether they will ever be able to come out of it. (which I
don't think is possible)

One last quote from Gone Girl, this was also in the movies and is insane:

> What are you thinking, Amy? How are you feeling? Who are you? What havbe we
> done to each other? What will we do?

### Dark Places

Another Gillian Flynn book. I read the book way before I even knew a movie
existed. When I finally saw the movie, it was a major disappointment. There is
one scene in my head, that was stuck there ever since I read about it in the
book. It's the scene in which Ben colors his hair black and comes to the
breakfast table, and his mom tells him to remove his hat.

Everyone at the table is a red-head except for Ben. Libby is the only one who
doesn't freak out and thinks it looks good on Ben, the others completely freak
out! The elder two are screaming and crying and hysteric, almost. The mother is
almost close to tears, she questions her own behaviour over the past few days
and blames herself for this _ghastly_ thing that Ben has done to himself. All of
this is from reading a book. The movie, what can I say, either they didn't want
to play this up or just plain missed it. The movie scene was so sober, it was a
big build-up that I hoped would be amazing. It was not. If you have read the
book, get this movie and watch this scene, you will understand what _true
disappointment_ is. (Kidding, it's bad, but not as bad as I make it sound in the
last paragraph)

Apart from this, Trey is an Indian dude who is extremely shady, hangs out with
Diondra and Ben, and also happens to be rich enough to be eccentric and crazy.
His casting was okay, I guess (?), because I was expecting him to be a humongous
tall fit man, around whom, Ben would be considered nothing more than a teenage
boy. He's not that huge, and doesn't really appear much in the movie at all,
except for a few scenes with Diondra and Ben.

This movie was a major disappointment, and it was mainly because except for
Diondra and Krissi Cates, every other character's role seemed to be diminished
and not as much as I hoped it would be.

(This could also all be explained by saying that I got too carried away by the
book and had really high expectations. Not sure if that is legit though.)

Yeah, that's all I am going to talk about today. When doing something like
"100DaysOfWriting", it's all about pace. If I spend too much time on today's
post, it will become a habit and the cost of doing this will increase and I
don't intend for that to happen. So, talking about "The Girl On The Train" is
going to have to wait.

**POST #4 is OVER**
