---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 56 - MISSED; Nautilus update is irritating, switching to Dolphin(?)
categories: 100daysofwriting nautilus missed rant ubuntu nautilus update open-mic comedy
---

So, I [recently updated to Ubuntu
16.04](https://icyflame.github.io/blog/100daysofwriting/writing/ubuntu/installation/2017/03/04/day-15/).
(Not really recently, I updated 41 days ago :O )

Alongwith the update of the distribution update, I got an update for most of the
native apps. One of them: NAUTILUS. That's the file manager thing on Ubuntu.
It's standard, it's everywhere, I loved it. _Used to_ love it. Now, they have
done something annoying.

Most people have many partitions, I have several of them. Some of them are
encrypted, some of them are NTFS to transfer files between Windows and Ubuntu,
etc etc. Earlier, there was just one icon on the left-side task bar. Clicking
once and opening it anywhere would add a window there. And now, things are
different.

Each partition opens in a new window and all nautilus windows are not grouped
together. Instead, partition windows are grouped together. This is INCREDIBLY
inconvenient. I don't have any partition up top because that takes up a lot of
icons, and that's not what I want to waste space on. So they are dumped right at
the bottom of the sidebar, and it's so HARD to navigate and copy files between
partitions. I have absolutely not clue why or when they decided to go ahead and
do this.

The problem is so bad that even if you open a new tab in a window and then open
a new partition in that, then the tab appears as a window with some weird stuff
happening. (Like if I have partition 1 open in the first tab and partition 2 in
the second tab, clicking on the partition 2 brings that window into focus
although visibly there's only one window!)

It seems that they have simply removed having a Nautilus window unless it's in
the Home partition. Everything else is another window. It's so frustrating, I am
going to be going out there and looking for a saner way to manage my files. (I
am installing Dolphin right now, hopefully Dolphin manages this situation
better)

I know that I promised to write about Homeland's season 6 finale, but this
particular rant took precendence over that. I have been silently enduring this
for long enough, I figured.

Another interesting application I just installed was GnuCash. I use
[terminal-wallet](https://www.npmjs.com/package/terminal-wallet) for my
day-to-day finances and an Excel sheet for a larger picture. GnuCash looks like
the right replacement for the larger picture one, it has a sweet interface that
I already like, but I haven't tested it out well, and the number and type of
accounts is confusing. I am not surprised by that though, I will crack it.

P.S. Today was also the day of an Open Mic called [Live at the Apollo
13](https://www.facebook.com/events/1855088841395817/), there were 6 acts and it
was GOOD! I missed the first time that this happened (last year) for some
mundane reason, Yesterday was GOOD!

**POST #56 is OVER**
