---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 91 - Daughter of Time disoriented me, so a Glossary
categories: 100daysofwriting
---

The Daughter of Time is a _slight_ disorienting book. It is about a historical
murder (or not?) and dates back four centuries. The names are all extremely
confusing (of the characters in the book that the main character is reading).
For now, Alan, the Matron, the two nurses, Marta, Brent and Laura seem to be the
only ones in the main story that matter. There's also a Sergeant, and a Super
who never enters the picture (Thankfully!)

On the historical side though, things are murky as hell. Richard III is the
character of interest, he has an elder brother by ten years Edward. I don't know
what number this Edward was though, IV seems like a good guess. He also had
another elder brother called George whose children were not given the throne
because someone said that they were illegitimate. Richard had a wife who was one
of his neices. A sister to the two litte boys who have apparently been murdered
by Richard III.

Some other characters that have made an appearance till now are Cecily Nevill,
Richard and Edward's mom. A Woodvill woman who was Edward's wife and all of her
relatives who are all upstarts.

I also know that the circumstances surrounding Edward's death and Richard's
actions right after his death were all textbook good younger brother and there
was no reason to believe that he had any motive to murder his dead brother's
only two sons just then. They investigation is still on (and will remain so for
about 47% of the remaining part of the book).

I wonder if anyone uses Foursquare anymore. Back when I installed it, it was a
really good looking app. Now, it's a normal looking app but it took me to a
great Chinese restaurant somewhere in the middle of Koramangala yesterday.
[Hunan](https://foursquare.com/v/hunan/4e7b4e08887750b4e4a8708d), it was called.
Definitely recommended.

(Hunan was also the name of the restaurant that Jerry, George, Elaine, Kramer
and the gang go to in Seinfeld in NYC in the 90s!)

**POST #91 is OVER**
