---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 49 - Western Groups in the wee hours, MFQP PR 30, Homeland finale
categories: 100daysofwriting
---

Today is going to be an interesting day. My day isn't over yet, not in theory
anyway. The Western Groups Interhall event is going to happen in about 4
hours(?) from now. There's no way to know when it would happen.

I finally opened [PR #30: Add ability to pre-fill the search bar from URL
param](https://github.com/metakgp/mfqp/pull/30). This particular change has been
on my fork of this repository for quite a long time. It should find it's way
into the repository's master branch soon. The most important functionality that
it would add to MFQP would be the addition of mfqp as a search engine in Chrome!
So, typing `mfqp TAB query ENTER` should complete the search. Earlier, the
process was to go to [https:\/\/qp.metakgp.org](https://qp.metakgp.org) and then
type the query into the search box manually. This would make using MFQP slightly
more pleasant!

The Homeland season finale is going to drop on Sunday! I am so excited about
that, especially because of all the _new_ plot points that were introduced in
6.11. Rupert Friend has been doing the rounds on all the morning shows and the
late night shows promoting and answering questions about Homeland and this is
the first time that he has started levitating towards the lead actor Emmy and
**not** the supporting actor Emmy which he was nominated for once.

The other names being thrown up are Sterling Brown's Chris Darden from People
vs. O J Simpson and Reese Witherspoon's Madeline from beloved BigLittleLies! All
three played complex characters and unfortunately, I am too biased towards
Claire Danes to support anyone except Rupert Friend, but I think they might all
have a good chance! (And there will obviously be people from TV series that I
haven't watched, right? RIGHT?) The Emmys are in September this year which is an
incredibly long way off, so everything right now is too early anyway.

Unfortunately, I haven't made any progress with Emma ever since. I have started
working on my final Bachelors thesis report now. It's a latex document that's
already been prepared, template / fonts / external packages wise. I just need to
write stuff and then run the `build.sh` script. I have a similar setup for all
my Latex projects. This script takes care of annoying stuff like the deletion of
the `log` and `aux` files that are created when a TEX file is built with
`xelatex`.

I removed gnome-keyring yesterday, things are still fine. The password entry
from inside the terminal isn't too annoying at all! And I use GPG so rarely that
it doesn't matter anymore.

**POST #49 is OVER**
