---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 60 - Nostalgia hits - Masaan and Lunchbox, Search for the Indian Railway Commercial Ticketing Manual
categories: 100daysofwriting movies hindi masaan lunchbox railways
---

Yesterday's post, that I wrote 13 hours ago, was one of the most detailed and
informative blog posts that I have written in this series for about 20 days now.
I shared it with a lot of people, I hope people see it, read it and implement
some of those measures in their lives too. For me, to implement all of those
things took almost a year. I started with 2FA and now, I have implemented all of
them. It takes considerable time and effort to implement some of those measures,
but the time spent will be well worth it.

I had a strong bout of nostalgia today, movies related. I watched scenes from
[Masaan (2015)](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt4635372/) and
[Lunchbox (2013)](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2350496/). A few
letters, some great songs, some incredibly good actors. And scenes that are
_memorable_ for life. I wish they made more movies like this in the present
times. Unsurprisingly, when I think of the last movie that I saw and really
liked, the latest one I can remember is [Yeh Jawani Hain
Deewani](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2178470/?ref_=nv_sr_1) which was released 4
years ago. It's a sad state of affairs. (P.S. I really wish the publicity for
Masaan had been great and I had seen that movie in a movie theater!)

Masaan had an especially dark middle part of the movie, it was a heart breaking
scene to be honest. There are many spoilers to be given here, and I won't talk
about them. It hits you like a train would, I imagine.

Lunchbox had this insanely suspenseful sequence in it's middle when suicide is
on the cards for Nimrat Kaur's character and her daughter. The picturing of the
whole thing, my knowledge of the copycat effect and how it affects events like
these, had my brain running full speed to find some way out of this. Some way to
convince myself it won't happen. It didn't end up happening, I am _SO_ glad for
that. Sad endings only work to give the movie a bittersweet taste where you
remember the movie for that particular bad event and everything else happened
before and after, but that one bad event is always the defining moment for you
in the movie.

In Masaan, Pankaj Tripathi's character, who is an Indian Railways ticketing
agent, has a book called the "Indian Railways Commercial Ticketing Manual" in
his hand. Apparently, this manual consists of the instructions for new ticketing
agents to learn how to generate tickets for their customers at the counter. A
preliminary search lead me to this [listing
page](http://www.indianrailways.gov.in/railwayboard/view_section.jsp?lang=0&id=0,5,377)
for Codes, Manuals related to IR. The only manual that I could find which had a
similar name was the [Indian Railways Commercial Manual: Vol
1](http://www.indianrailways.gov.in/railwayboard/uploads/codesmanual/CommManual-I/main%20page.htm)
I can't be sure if this is the same book or not, I see no reason for them to put
the manual online for anyone to read, but the difference in name could simply be
because the online document was last published in 1992. That's right! 25 YEARS
AGO! There must definitely be a newer, better document that has the exact
Ticketing information.

Considering that I [wrote a post about
this](https://icyflame.github.io/blog/100daysofwriting/proposals/trip-diary/railways/2017/03/12/day-23/),
it is my duty to find out as much as I can. Expect a comprehensive account of my
search for the evasive Ticketing Manual: Vol 1 in the coming few posts in this
series!

**POST #60 is OVER**
