---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 51 - Writing tex, music I heard through the day, r/BigLittleLies and bad critics
categories: 100daysofwriting music big-little-lies tv-shows tv-series reddit
---

I spent most of today staring at a tex document inside vim. I was listening to
some different kind of music throughout the day actually. I started with RHCP's
Stadium Arcadium. Specifically, the three songs Stadium Arcadium, Hey and Snow.
I LOVE Hey. "HEY, Oh yeah, How long?"

Then, I switched over to The Neighbourhood's #icanteven, which is a nice upbeat
rap included song. The beat is really good to get you out of sleep and really
concentrate on the text on your screen. Or anything else, really. Now, I am
listening to Arctic Monkeys. I somehow always end up listening to them. Either
AM or Favourite Worst Nightmare or Suck It and See. One of those three albums.
Their whole discography has so much _variety_ and the song sequences of the
whole album are set in my mind so I know what's coming before the song plays.
It's a great feeling, knowing what song is going to play next.

While AM and RHCP are pretty popular, I always got the feeling that The
Neighbourhood didn't get as famous as they should have for all their songs
except the smash hit Sweater Weather. While I love that song, the top 10 songs
on their Spotify page are all good!

![img](/blog/public/img/day-51-1.png)

Sweater Weather has an incredible 212 Million plays, but it's really surprising
that people didn't click through the artist and come to this page and play their
other songs. One track minds for almost everyone out there, I guess. Anyway, I
am glad I went to their artist page and heard their other songs and one of their
albums. If you are reading this, and haven't heard the songs in the above
screenshot, go right ahead and listen to them!

Yesterday, I contemplated writing a post about the music I like going in a
chronological order, starting somewhere in the 80s but it was too great a
project and I would inevitably miss someone or the other out. Even when I was
trying to make a list in my head for myself, I was missing out on a lot of
artists that I like and listen to very often, like Ed Sheeran, no less!! I will
do it some day soon, maybe after Thursday's Bachelor's thesis presentation.
There should be enough time for that and other such ambitious projects then.

Big Little Lies ended last Monday. I was disappointed about the things they
changed from the books, other than that I was glad about the binocular scene at
the end and the zippo closing shut, it was probably the woman detective who was
doing that. I posted a link to r/BigLittleLies about Season 2 and that link
earned me my first Link karma, and about 20 more after that! [I didn't realise
that I would miss Perry this much
though](https://www.reddit.com/r/biglittlelies/comments/63yxd4/season_2_might_happen_says_author_witherspoon/dfy2zca/).

Another link that was posted on this subreddit was [this thread about how male
reviewers didn't understand
BLL](https://www.reddit.com/r/biglittlelies/comments/649kby/why_are_male_critics_so_baffled_by_big_little_lies/).
I read the criticism of the reviews, and then I read the reviews themselves, and
I found them to have grossly overlooked the complete show. In fact, the most
startling comment in the NY Post review was this:

> Instead, weâ€™re subjected to scenes of the S&M sex games played by Celeste and
> her husband, Perry (a one-dimensional Alexander Skarsgard)

Not even the most distracted viewer of ALL 5 episodes of the show, as the author
claims to be, would refer to Perry's abuse of Celeste as S&M games. To pass
comments on a show without even seeing it properly, when it's your JOB. How do
these critics get away with it?

I read both reviews through and [noted down all the gross
mistakes](https://www.reddit.com/r/biglittlelies/comments/649kby/why_are_male_critics_so_baffled_by_big_little_lies/dg1fp1n/)
in those reviews. I won't call them mistakes because they weren't
mis-understandings of the show, they were presumptions from having watched the
show for 5 minutes and then trying to pass judgement on the show. Incredibly
short sighted authors and reviewers: Mike Hale and Robert Rorke. I wish they
would up their game and write a respectable review that actually HIT the things
that were bad with this show, if they could find anything.

Also, I noticed that many articles were asking for a season 2 just so we could
have another stellar soundtrack. Season 1 had some of the best BGM in the show,
probably after Westworld and Game of Thrones, this is one of the most memorable
soundtracks. Although, most of the songs were not originals composed for this
show, they fit the situation perfectly in every case and that's what I care
about!

**POST #51 is OVER**
