---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 32 - Game of Thrones Questionnaire; Bias for our solutions; awesome-social-science
categories: 100daysofwriting awesome-social-science game-of-thrones pull-requests metakgp mfqp
---

Today, I watched [this
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LRh23jHPxd8). That video linked to [The
Game of Thrones Research Project](http://www.questeros.org/About.cshtml) which
is a group of people who have put out a public questinnaire and are keeping the
responses open for a period of time. They plan to do something with the results
and entries that they are going to get from it. Apparently, this kind of thing
falls into the genre of `Audience Projects`.

There is a longer explanation of what they plan to do with the data, and what
they hope to learn from it [on this
page](http://www.questeros.org/About.cshtml), and theses goals are mentioned
there:

> (1) To capture the range of responses that people have to the series, overall –
> why and how it matters to people to follow the story, and see how it unfolds,
> but also to understand why and how some people have been upset by particular
> elements.  (2) To see how, for different people, this series finds its place
> among other modern fantasy stories.  (3) To understand how people are bonding
> with the very different kinds of characters that GoT offers us, and who so
> often have awful fates ahead of them – and what sorts of pleasure you get from
> this. (4) To find out how people relate to the big controversies that have
> accompanied GoT – for example, the controversies around the changes from books
> to TV, the altered fates of various characters, and the series' portrayals of
> sex, and sexual violence.  (5) And to have a go at thinking how this 'fantasy'
> world of Westeros and beyond is seen to relate to our world, our mucky,
> violent, troubled world.

Now, the third point above about the characters is especially interesting to me!
I would absolutely **LOVE** to know who the most liked character is (among the
show fans, this might unequivocally be Tyrion Lannister, but among book
audiences, I _want_ to believe that Jaime has _a chance_. Time will tell.

Today, I also worked on [this issue](https://github.com/metakgp/mfqp/issues/27).
The main goal of this issue is to create a "search" URL parameter which can be
pre-filled into the _only_ search bar on the MFQP frontpage. This would allow
for linking directly when sharing with other people or when adding to course
pages on the Wiki itself. (That way whenever new papers are added, they will
automatically show up in the MFQP link that is available on each course page)

There was some back and forth about the approach to solve this problem. The
contributor, [Punit](https://github.com/punit1108) implemented this by entering
into the message passing part of the code and editing it. Thinking about it at
first, I believed that it would be a really small change, and a bit more
investigation led me to [this
patch](https://github.com/icyflame/mfqp/commit/700b2aad09ac54f6baaf74e108fd43c854afd0a9),
which uses the `jquery-url` library and fills the search box and then calls the
`search()` function which will read the query, call the fuzzy search library
that is integrated into MFQP and finally show the results. This works!

My main arguments for my way of solving this problem are 1. the size of the
patch is way smaller and 2. it re-uses all the existing code and simply adds
some basic JS to use that code instead of delving into the message passing
mechanism. Also, my first impressions on seeing the old code (which I was doing
to get context on [Punit's pull
request](https://github.com/metakgp/mfqp/pull/29)) was that the message passing
was being used for the sole purpose of communicating that the `data.json`
Network request has been completed and if there is any query that needs to be
made, it should be made **right now**.

Since the discussion wasn't going anywhere with just the two of us, I called for
some more eyes on the code. The bias that we have for our own method of solving
a problem and believing that it is the most elegant and pretty way to solve a
problem often gets in the way and it's best to get a second or third opinion
instead of trying to re-introduce objectivity to the discussion. How emotional
we are about a few lines of text that we write? :D

Also, this hilarious tweet series went out from me when I saw the first PR to my
[awesome-social-science](https://github.com/icyflame/awesome-social-science) list:

[![twitter-screenshot](/public/img/2017-03-21-twitter.png)](https://twitter.com/_icyflame/status/843464616223039492)

This was yesterday, or the day before. Dhruv Apte
([@the-ethan-hunt](https://github.com/the-ethan-hunt)) was kind enough to work
on it again and submit [another pull
request](https://github.com/icyflame/awesome-social-science/pull/9), this time
for the Golem Effect. I added the [Pygmalion
Effect](https://github.com/icyflame/awesome-social-science#pygmalion-effect)
entry some time ago, and it was a very very interesting read. I still remember
the lighting conditions changing for factory workers and the external
supervision by higher management, and how these two affected workers
performance. TL; DR Higher management presence even with bad lighting yielded
good performance from all the factory workers!

I look forward to reviewing that pull request and probably making some changes
and merging it into the repository! One of his references came from the
[American Psychological Association](http://psycnet.apa.org/index.cfm), which
surprisingly lets it's users download full text PDFs of ALL the articles that
are on the website. I was _really_ surprised that they let people do that. Being
inside IIT Kharagpur, I have access to some of the popular services like
Elsevier, IEEE, ASME standards, but there are still a myriad other publications
out there which charge a whopping $20-$30 for every research paper! (For
comparison, 300-page Handmaid's Tale cost me slightly less than $4.00)

Anyway, the APA website looks good and hopefully I will be able to find some
time to read through some of the interesting articles. Also, it looks like a lot
of [D-News](https://www.youtube.com/user/DNewsChannel) were sourced and
fact-checked here. It would make sense too, the issues look long and can be a
day job!

I have rambled on for long enough.

**POST #32 is OVER**
