---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 30 - Metakgp meetup to meet the candidates for Maintainer Election March 2017
categories: 100daysofwriting open-source programming
---

Today, we had a Metakgp meetup to meet all the candidates in our [upcoming
maintainer
election](https://wiki.metakgp.org/w/Metakgp:Governance/Election_March_2017).
So, to be clear, we are _not_ looking for a maintainer for one of our projects,
rather we are looking for a maintainer for Metakgp. Their roles are diverse but
would include day-to-day management, resolving conflicts between members, making
the _right_ decisions with inputs from everyone in the community and pushing the
community towards a consensus if the community can't find it on it's own, and
finally fascilitating an environment where new people would feel comfortable
joining and contributing. This
[role](https://wiki.metakgp.org/w/Metakgp:Governance#Role_of_maintainers) is
much better described at the
[Metakgp:Governance](https://wiki.metakgp.org/w/Metakgp:Governance) wiki page.

We have _a lot_ of candidates this year. And the process is proceeding pretty
smoothly. Everyone who has made a few contributions on the Wiki and atleast one
commit on one of the repositories in the Github organisation is eligible to vote
in this election.

Today's meetup was about meeting the candidates, getting to know them, and
seeing them and talking to them about their _ideas_ and _proposals_ for metakgp
and how they plan to move the community forward during their tenure as a
maintainer. Personally, I just wanted to meet all these people who are probably
going to be making some major decisions in the next 4-12 months. It was a great
meeting, and it ran for about 3-4 hours and we talked about all kinds stuff with
each candidate in turn. (It was structured too!)

There were a lot of points discussed, I would like to touch on a few of them
here.

- **Involvement of a professor**

  At metakgp, we have been discussing getting a professor who can be "in-charge"
  of the group for a long time. Almost ever since it was formed. The main idea for
  this is so that we can have someone whom we can get to sign the documents that
  need a professor's signature (mainly, room booking forms) with far less friction
  than right now. We have been dancing around the idea for almost 2 years now, and
  it has never materialised until now, when we truly discussed this rather
  seriously, probably because we are a student run organisation right now. We
  don't have any funds or anything. We contribute for server costs, we use the
  free plans of most of the services out there. And not having any oversight
  ensures that we can do whatever we want, without the fear of offending someone
  in the process.

  Although, logistics does become harder with the lack of a professor and ends up
  being prohibitive when trying to organise talks or movie screenings. (Last year,
  Harsh Gupta and Vikrant Varma collaborated to organise a screening of the Aaron
  Swartz documentary)

- **Introduction seminar / Workshop / Hack days**

  In Kharagpur, each year 1400 starry eyed 17 year olds enter the campus as first
  year students. They are waiting to be poached by societies around the campus. To
  fascilitate this, Technology Students Gymkhana organises introductory seminars
  for all of the popular socieites like Robotics research groups, Technology
  Literary Society, Technology Dance Society, etc. Initially, I really liked this
  idea. It seemed like a great way to spread the word among a huge amount of
  people right when they enter KGP, and get them to start using metakgp from the
  get go. But a point that Sayan Sinha (@americast on Metakgp Slack) brought up
  was that people don't get to learn anything at an Introductory seminar and thus
  it's more or less a waste of people's time and a lot of people might not even
  remember what was said there.

  This got me thinking about whether this is a good idea or a bad one. There is
  some kind of a compromise to be made here. Clearly, there need to be a few
  improvements to the basic intro seminar idea (bad) to add a few ingredients from
  the Hack days (good) to make the final result good.

  Personally, I feel that talks are a great way to spread knowledge, talk to
  people, and really get into the habit of sharing your experience and the things
  that you have learnt with others, _not_ because they will not make the same
  mistakes, but because when they do, _atleast_ they will know how to make it
  right!

- **Core groups inside Open Source projects**

  This is something that one of the people mentioned. I am not going to talk about
  it in today's write up, I need to make sure that there's no issue that they have
  with me talking about this. SO, I am going to leave it here.

- **Getting people to contribute (and more specifically, getting more female
   contributors in KGP**

  This has been something that was recently brought up on the Metakgp Slack
  #random channel. It is [summarized
  here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uAM0yE83xUu_Pwrc4HOZVNR2wqVd1USMUHzVyv6z2CI/edit?usp=sharing)
  by Naresh R (one of the candidates in this election).

  Plainly speaking, to get more people interested in a project that you are wildly
  interested in, but they feel _lukewarm_ about is an uphill task. There have been
  a lot of magical ways to do this that have been suggested in the past, but I am
  pretty sure none of these really worked. 

  To make this happen in an environment where money is _not_ one of the
  motivations to contribute and spend your time on a project is probably twice as
  hard (if not more). From the closely knit open source communities around
  prominent projects like Git, the Linux kernel, Ruby, Python, Rails, etc it is
  clear that even they are not able to "retain" people beyond an off hand patch
  that people send now and then to really understand how an organisation works (I
  sent one to GIT, too!)

  There are also probably some specific reasons why women don't feel comfortable
  working on Metakgp even though most of our work and discussion is done online on
  Slack and Github, both of which are open to everyone. And the meet-ups that we
  have happen at neutral places where both genders can roam around freely. These
  are justifications as to why we are not biased, but there are some other things, 
  like a low female participation _causing_ fewer new female members to join,
  which I don't know how to solve. Most maintainers have this on their agenda for
  their tenure, so I hope to be able to work with them and everyone else active
  right now to make this happen. Progress will probably be slow, but we MUST make
  what little headway we can.

**POST #30 is OVER**
