---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 82 - A tweet that blew up
categories: 100daysofwriting privacy twitter
---

I tweeted something that quickly became my most liked and retweeted tweet.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en"
dir="ltr">Achievement unlocked. Google doesn&#39;t know what I did on the
internet after April 7th. <a
href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/privacymatters?src=hash">#privacymatters</a>
(P.S. Start using <a href="https://twitter.com/duckduckgo">@duckduckgo</a> ) <a
href="https://t.co/kYOiqhgYDM">pic.twitter.com/kYOiqhgYDM</a></p>&mdash;
Siddharth Kannan (@_icyflame) <a
href="https://twitter.com/_icyflame/status/862524711980285953">May 11,
2017</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Surprisingly, I went to the myactivity page because of a button on the DDG
search results page that pointed me to a DDG article about privacy measures to
take on PCs and Android phones.

As someone quickly pointed out, I didn't have Google Analytics or other
analytics JavaScript running on the client side blocked. I used to use
[Ghostery](https://www.ghostery.com/) for this. They gave a list of the tracking
services which are installed on the sites you visit.

An earlier version used to show a list of the trackers and it wouldn't go away
immediately. I don't think they even had the functionality to block scripts at
the very beginning. I didn't try to remove that list, I admit. I simply
uninstalled the extension.

The list of trackers would appear on the bottom right corner, and would be there
for the first few seconds of visiting _each and every page_.

I installed the latest version of Ghostery's chrome extension and the list has
been replaced by a much less visible and less irritating "number" that they show
in the bottom right corner of every page after loading the page. Selecting the
"Block All" option (which honestly looked like the easiest thing to click on the
extension configuration page) blocks all scripts. I can see the scripts
complaining in the `console.log` or Chrome itself notifying the console that
scripts were blocked.

There were also some more interesting conversations on the tweet. I have to
cover them in the next post. _have to_ xD.

**POST #82 is OVER**
