---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 95 - BEGIN Shawshank Redemption, another query population hurdle
categories: 100daysofwriting mongoose population movies king
---

> UNFULFILLED POTENTIAL

If you have seen any trailer of The Circle (2017), you will know that this is
the thing that Emma Watson's character is most scared of. I just finished
watching Good Will (Goodwill?) Hunting. That movie is the portrayal of
unfulfilled potential. The ending is good, in my opinion though, the movie
is over rated generally.

I have gone through 2 pages of Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. It's
pretty easy reading (after that nightmarish historical mystery book, I bet
anything with actual people walking around the place would be easy reading) and
I know who Andy Dufresne is. Fair enough, more updates soon.

I went back and had a look at the "Should we send a notification?" flow chart
that was recently tweeted by someone at Slack. It was a quip at how people say
that "They could build X on a weekend", X being anything like Facebook, Twitter,
Slack etc. i.e. **Deceptively simple products that have had a lot of thought put
into their design, but no one acknowledges them. Worst of all, even other
engineers don't.**

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">When Hacker News commenters say &quot;I could build that app in a weekend!&quot; I think of this chart of how Slack decides to send a notification. <a href="https://t.co/LopicAyzkL">pic.twitter.com/LopicAyzkL</a></p>&mdash; Matt Haughey (@mathowie) <a href="https://twitter.com/mathowie/status/837735473745289218">March 3, 2017</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Another query population hurdle that I ran into was the population of an array
of `String`s, which are a unique field in another collection. Let me explain:

```
Person: {
  username: {
    type: String,
    unique: true,
    required: true
  }
}

Comment: { ...
  usernames: {
    type: [String]
  }
}
```

I have read the mongoose query population document several times but this
particular case it seems hasn't been addressed. If it were an array of
`ObjectId`s, of course it would be a simple `populate('usernames')` addition to
the query.

Virtuals was something that I tried to look into but that again serves another
purpose altogether. I will keep looking but I think mongoose doesn't support
something like this right now.

**POST #95 is OVER**
