---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 13 - Using Ansys Workbench, Tigo and Yelle
categories: 100daysofwriting mechanical projects
---

Very few times have I said that learning a new project has been fun! Today
definitely qualifies!

I had to learn Ansys for something that I need to do for my bachelor's and
master's theses. Some simulations of loading conditions, and find out the
values of stress, where the values are maximum etc. There are two software
packages to do this: Abaqus and Ansys. Abaqus wouldn't install, so I tried
Ansys, the instalation was a breeze! IIT Kharagpur has a License Server running
on the internal network, so there are no file installation keys etc. The
license is on the network, that's GREAT!

Anyway, switch to Windows 8, a 45 minute or so installation, 5 more minutes to
reboot.

Start Ansys Workbench, wander around it aimlessly for 30 minutes, accept that
you need help, go to Youtube and search "Ansys Workbench Tensile Test
Tutorial", search for the right tutorial.

I ended up on [this really really good
tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vnpq5zzOS48) for Ansys Workbench
which is absolutely lucid, and doesn't have one step that was skipped. And
there's a voiceover guiding you what to do! These are the best tutorials!

So, finally, after all that effort, I ended up being able to simulate a tensile
test on a Steel specimen.

The animation feature is pretty nice to look at, and serves really well to put
here as my first real attempt at using Ansys:

![131](/blog/public/img/day-13-1.gif)

Cloudfare came out with their [official partial
post-mortem](https://blog.cloudflare.com/quantifying-the-impact-of-cloudbleed)
of the Cloudbleed bug that affected them on 18th February, 2017. They were down
for a bit, their parser was broken. It's a good read, and it's pretty technical
heavy also, which I greatly appreciate. They are a great company, and I have
used their web dashboard for [metakgp.org](https://metakgp.org) where we use
Cloudfare to provide HTTPS to the users of our website, without having an SSL
certificate for our domain on the server.

The two artists mentioned in the title are the people who's songs that I will
share here today:

<iframe width="1280" height="720"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TYfAWC-CDk8" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="1280" height="720"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uGz6fQYskjY" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe> 

I am still making insignificant progress in Big Little Liars, the three main
characters are now introduced and ready to get started with. By the way, it's
not clear who has been murdered, Bonnie is alive. I hope it's not one of these
three.

Fun fact: I know that Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon are in the TV
Adaptation of this book, and I tried to figure out who would be what character.
For now, I think Kidman is Celeste (from Jane's description of Celeste when she
first sees her), and Reese is probably Jane (?). I still haven't seen the
trailer or anything, so this is rather exciting!

**POST #13 is OVER**
