---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 45 - r/place shuts down after 72 hours, WHY was it created?, Emma is an ENIGMA
categories: 100daysofwriting writing books
---

If you didn't know about [r/place](https://reddit.com/r/place), I will give you
a lowdown on it. It first started as an empty canvas apparently. When I went to
it, there was a lot of pixel art there already. Anyone can place a pixel
anywhere, with one catch: you can only place a pixel once every 10 (later 5)
minutes. [This](http://i.imgur.com/2fJ0fQa.png) is how the canvas looked at the
very end, about a couple hours ago when `r/place` crashed and the whole project
was ended. Initially, I thought this was a social experiment to prove that there
are more constructive art-makers on reddit than there are trolls who only want
to destroy everything good and honest. Was it, though? I couldn't find the first
post on that subreddit, which I am somehow convinced would have consisted of
_some_ rational of building this thing. I will keep trying to find out why this
thing stayed alive for [72
hours](https://www.reddit.com/r/place/comments/6382bb/place_has_ended/?utm_content=title&utm_medium=hot&utm_source=reddit&utm_name=place)
and then just stopped.

It would be safe to say that people did indeed come together and made something
great starting from an [empty
canvas](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/C8Q3UXRXYAAF20P.jpg) spewed with NSFW
messages to the final form of the canvas which had a lot of flags, the GNU/Linux
penguin, Counter Strike logo, Tesla logo and SO much other art that _wasn't_
created by one person. This was a fun thing that was around for three days and I
got to experience it in real time! And _not_ in retrospect. There have been so
many 2-3 day trends that I have missed out on simply because I was tuned out and
doing something else and was late to the game.

Inched a little bit further in Emma, finally she starts to "get" Elton! Harriet
is soooo being taken for a ride! But there is this particularly fascinating and
disturbing paragraph. Emma is daydreaming about Frank Churchill, who is a
mysterious character who's never been seen by anyone in Hartfield, and herself
being seen as a couple in everyone's eyes and RIGHT AFTER that, Weston (Miss
Taylor's husband) calls her up and tells her that he thinks Frank and Harriet
would make a perfect match and she doesn't bat an eyelid before answering! Not
even in her inner monologue! HOW?! This is disturbing because this is weird
behaviour, if you are daydreaming about someone and their parents want you to
arrange a match for them with a friend of yours, what would your reaction be?
(This is totally only going to happen in a late 18th century book where you call
your father Sir and all the conversation is painfully formal and to the point
and asking after other people obediently because that's what you do.)

Emma Woodhouse is an [ENIGMA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma). Frank
Churchill is also an [ENIGMA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma).

**POST #45 is OVER**
