---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 47 - Updated About page after 2 years,  Homeland 6.11 complicates the TV show more
categories: 100daysofwriting homeland tv-shows about-page
---

I updated my About page. I should have done that a long time ago, I last updated
that page on March 31, 2015. That's two years and 1 week before today! A HUGE
amount of time in which my outlook about a lot of things has changed. I glanced
at the diff again and I noticed the change in the tone of the text in that page.
Having written history to compare yourself to past selves is an interesting
experience, sometimes my past naivete intrigues me in the same way that
understanding _after_ learning something, it's hard to imagine a time when
didn't know that thing. I am pretty sure that whole situation is called
something, I don't know what the search term should be though, so I am going to
let it go.

AH! I saw Homeland's 6.11 episode. It created some new troubles for Carrie and
Quinn and ended _again_ with a bang. Apparently, Claire Danes said over the past
few days when she's been doing the rounds talking about the season finale that
the finale will leave the viewers happy. At this stage, I have absolutely no
clue how they can make anything happy, almost everyone is in a bad place except
for Saul and Keane who are slowly understanding the situation that they have
landed themselves in. Max is stuck, Carrie and Quinn are too, O'Keefe has some
weird pull over audiences and cleverly edits sound and video to make it sound
like he is being villified. It's a HUGE MESS, and they 
[need another season](https://twitter.com/_icyflame/status/849563532500795393)
_JUST_ to explain the stuff that's been going on.

I think this season was mostly about Quinn and most importantly, Quinnn's past.
His staging house for Mid-East operations, Robert Knepper who appeared for only
two scenes in the whole show and has been missing ever since, the whole Dar Adal
play and what that end-game is, there are so many moving parts! The stage for
season 7 is beautifully set, unless they decide to shut everything down in the
finale. That's probably not going to happen!

The Big Little Lies finale dropped as well. A one-hour episode to cover all the
ground that was left uncovered till episode 6, this could have easily been a 10
episode mini series. Obviously, I just want to increase the number of episodes
because I really liked the book and would like to see an unhasty conclusion to
the show with Perry and all! (Alexander Skarsgard does such a great job playing
that character, he's 7 feet tall and his scenes with the twins are the BEST!) 

I haven't seen the episode yet, I hope they did justice to the explosive finale
that I am looking forward to. Scenes at the end of 1.6 showed that the setup for
the climax is the same as that in the books.

**POST #47 is OVER**
