---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 24 - Rambling about the Ubuntu 16.04 bug a little bit more
categories: 100daysofwriting
---

I didn't watch Revenant, actually. In the day 21 post, I said I would watch it,
but I couldn't watch it. I started watching it, but they weren't getting to the
point. I had a similar reaction to Avatar when I saw it for the first time, I
loved it afterwards. So, I will try again some time soon.

I started the day with [this
tweet](https://twitter.com/_icyflame/status/841151654363717632) which I thought
indicated the end of my troubles with the left click on the mouse not working
with a new Ubuntu 16.04 LTS installation on a Dell laptop. It was not, I faced
the problem again about 12 hours after the tweet, and I tried this but the
problem didn't fix itself. Interestingly, on disabling the ID that the DLL
device shows, it simply re-appears with a new ID. This happened earlier also,
but I thought this was somehow the fix. I tried disabling the complete pointer
and that didn't work either.

This bug has been reported before with Ubuntu 9.10 (yeah, that's about 8 years
ago) on
[Launchpad](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flashplugin-nonfree/+bug/410407).
The only way to reproduce this bug that is mentioned on this bug page is to
"Click inside a Flash screen". From the lengthy discussion on the bug there, it
is clear that this is most probably a window manager issue. Changing window
managers is rather easy on Ubuntu, you install something and it shows up in the
sessions and you change, it's not that big a deal, to be honest. I would change
as soon I find something that I like. I have tried Tiling WMs like i3 in the
past, and they didn't work out for me. They were just too weird and completely
radical compared to everything that I have become used to. Maybe some other
window manager! I have found [this webpage](http://www.xwinman.org/intro.php)
dedicated to offering users choice! Just what I was looking for.

<iframe width="854" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WLrTqbW0zIY"
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I read quite a bit of Handmaid's Tale yesterday. I am about 1/3rd of my way
through that book, it is disturbing. **Deeply disturbing.** I would not compare
it to 1984, because 1984 was about setting the scene as soon as possible and
explaining the character's dilemmas in that strict system. This book is more
about a character who has accepted her situation, and slowly revealing the
situation that she is in, and the life that she had before she walked into this
one. I have read the synopsis so I know a little bit too much, I wonder how it
must have felt to have read the book _without_ reading the synopsis, which
decidedly gives away a lot. (It would have taken atleast 45 pages for a reader
who hasn't read the synopsis to understand what was going on with all the women
wearing red, whose names all start with "Of" WHY?)

**POST #24 is OVER**
