---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 43 - MISSED; Clock issues on Windows-Ubuntu Dual Boot
categories: 100daysofwriting
---

Ah, this is going to be my sixth MISSED post. The irony of it all is that
yesterday, I really had a topic to write about. A topic that a friend asked me
about earlier in the day and one that I have faced many times myself. Uh, irony.

**Managing your Clock on Windows-Ubuntu Dual Boot**

Switching over to Windows and seeing the wrong time or switching to Ubuntu and
seeing the wrong time, it's all pretty irritating. It keeps happening, there's
no easy way to fix that, this is my recipe. It's pretty easy, I think.

1. Turn off the _Update time from Internet_ option on all your operating systems
2. Boot into Windows, and open the registry editor. (`WinKey + R` followed by
   `regedit` in the text box)
3. Edit this key:
   `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\TimeZoneInformation`
4. Right-click in the right-side panel and select New > DWORD Value. Create the 
    key named `RealTimeIsUniversal` and give it a value of 1.
5. Now, restart your computer and boot into Ubuntu. We will set the Hardware
   clock to UTC time.
6. Open a terminal, **you need root privileges on your machine**
7. Let's start with the basics. Run `sudo hwclock --show`, this should show you
   the current time that's stored in your hardware clock
8. Set this to the current UTC which should be available to you through your
   phone or the Internet. (Read further to see how to do this from a great GUI)
   1. `hwclock` supports the GREAT feature of copying over time from the system
   2. So, open the calendar / date-time GUI application and set the proper time
      there.
   3. Make sure automatic updation of the time from the internet is turned off
   4. Once you have set the proper time for your timezone in the window, you can
      run `sudo hwclock --systohc`. This will copy over the current system time
      to the hardware clock.
   5. You should also probably run `sudo hwclock --utc` to make sure that the
      hardware clock is kept in UTC
9. Open the file `/etc/default/rcS` and `UTC=yes` to that file
10. You are SET now!

This guide serves as an enhancement to the two pages that I have in my bookmarks
bar under the folder _Clock issues_ (Yeah, right, that's how big a problem this
was)

[Windows-Linux Dual Boot System Issues on mikebeach.org](https://mikebeach.org/2011/04/10/windows-linux-dual-boot-system-time-issues/)

[Examples of using hwclock on thegeekstuff.com](http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2013/08/hwclock-examples/)

That's the end of my tutorial for the most part, a couple of quick points about
this setup.

The main problem here is that Linux interprets the Hardware clock to be set in
UTC whereas Windows assumes it to be in Local time by default, this creates the
initial inconsistency.

Automatica time updation from the internet probably changes the hardware clock
right after startup and right before shutdown instead of changing it once? I
don't know anything about this, but I have a feeling that this also works
differently in both operating systems. Simply turning it off and adjusting for
the drift of the hardware clock every year or something as infrequent as that
will ensure that the setup is simple! (This also enables freely changing the
timezone on whichever operating system, that should not affect the hardware
clock at all)

**POST #43 is OVER**
