---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 59 - A list of things to improve your security online
categories: 100daysofwriting security cryptography lists
---

A new day, a new attack on HTTPS.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Can you
tell which is phishing? <br><br>You can&#39;t. That&#39;s the problem with
Unicode look-a-like character substitution. <a
href="https://t.co/431d4dNwGT">https://t.co/431d4dNwGT</a> <a
href="https://t.co/r18CLNCXcE">pic.twitter.com/r18CLNCXcE</a></p>&mdash; Michael
Coates (@_mwc) <a
href="https://twitter.com/_mwc/status/853395181437042689">April 15,
2017</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Checking certificates is a great practice, and almost always I stop after
opening a certificate and looking at the certificate signing chain. That tells
most of the story. Specifically, when using some other computer, it tells you
whether the computer's owner is trying to fake some certificate sign by putting
a malicious Gmail certificate on the computer and effectively implementing a
MITM attack. It's as simple as installing [MITM Proxy](https://mitmproxy.org/)
which automatically creates a certificate and adds it to `/etc/ssl/certs`.

The best way to avoid this is to not login on any unknown device, at all. There
are some guidelines like these that I have learned from experience, and although
listing them all down is going to be next to impossible, I can try.

1. **DO** use Google Authenticator for 2-Factor Authentication. Use it for all the accounts that
   tell the world who you are: Email, Twitter (THEY IMPLEMENTED IT!), LastPass, GitHub, Digital
   Ocean, Slack. (Those are _a few_ of the services I use 2FA for)

	[![twitter-screenshot](/public/img/2017-04-18-twitter.png)](https://twitter.com/_icyflame/status/854151800462741506)

2. **DON'T** login to your core accounts on an unknown computer. There could be
   anything ranging from a hardware keylogger that you didn't notice, a software
   keylogger which can be installed in 2 minutes on Windows or a malicious SSL
   MITM attacker who went to the pain of faking a certificate chain to reduce
   your suspicions. JUST DON'T. To download or share files, read the next point.

3. **DO** setup a publicly viewable Google Drive folder and create a shortlink
   for that folder and add it to your contacts. Whenever you want to download
   something on a strange computer, use your phone to put it on the public
   folder, download it and then delete it from Drive.

4. **DO** use DuckDuckGo. They don't track you, they don't even ask you to sign
   in. If you must use Google because sometimes DDG just doesn't cut it, open
   Incognito and use `!google` before your query. That way the searches are not
   tied to your account and you can save yourself from targetted advertising
   based on your searches.

5. **DO** use a VPN whenever using Public WiFi. Something as simple as Surfeasy
   is enough to thwart people trying to spy on you using simple things like
   Wireshark. I know hardly anything about the myriad list of tools available
   out there to spy on people who are using a public network. Using a VPN should
   preclude some really basic attacks.

6. **DON'T** enter your Bank Password or anything related to Internet Banking
   _WITHOUT_ first checking the SSL certificate of the website. If chrome shows
   the green bar, don't stop there. Press `CTRL+SHIFT+I`, open the certificate
   and atleast look at the certificate. Look at the spelling of the website (Our
   brain does this weird thing where `https://onlinsbi.com` looks so so
   similar to `https://onlinesbi.com`. I used to be terrified of this particular
   attack.

7. **DO** use _STRONG PASSWORDS_. This is a no-brainer, really, but I still feel
   like I must say this. 8 character long passwords are the bare minimum and
   just don't cut it. Something as simple as
   [thc-hydra](https://www.thc.org/thc-hydra/) has bruteforcing options for
   passwords that are this small.

8. **DO** use LONG RSA keys. If possible, use Elliptic Curve keys. In any case,
   your default RSA key should ideally be 4096 bits long. [This guide will help
   you upgrade your keys](https://blog.g3rt.nl/upgrade-your-ssh-keys.html)

9. **DO** have a small Pendrive that has your RSA keys, PGP keys (Who uses PGP
   anymore?), your 2FA recovery codes. Take it with you whenever you are going
   on a sufficiently long trip. **Remember to use LUKS** and encrypt the
   partition that has all this data. Otherwise, you are just inviting trouble.

10. **DO** uninstall `openssh-server` from your main computer. It's an annoying
    package that doesn't come pre-installed in Ubuntu, but if you ended up
    installing it somehow, uninstall it right now! `sshd` is one of those
    tunnels into your machine you didn't even know existed until someone walked
    right in and stole files from you.

11. **DO** follow Security and Cryptography blogs using something like Feedly.
    The best two out there right now are
    [cryptographyengineering.com](https://blog.cryptographyengineering.com/) and
    [Bruce Schneier on Security](https://www.schneier.com/). If you use Twitter
    a lot, follow some Security driven accounts like
    [Filippo](https://twitter.com/FiloSottile),
    [@SwiftOnSecurity](https://twitter.com/SwiftOnSecurity), and
    [@evacide](https://twitter.com/evacide). I know I follow a lot more people
    who are in the _industry_, but I can't seem to remember them. I would like
    to create a Twitter list of these people and then, pass that list around.
    (That list probably already exists?)

12. **DO** follow Cryptography news closely and go beyond the mainstream media
    to find out _exactly_ what the attack is. Media headlines are generally
    click-baity and say things like **The NSA can now see your bank passwords**
    when the actual attack is an attack on HTTPS which requires a
    particular set of conditions to be met, and these conditions are never
    really met for most people. This is just a random example. My point is: Go
    beyond the mainstream media, go to the paper / article that the attacker
    published, read through it, think about it, and finally, **take measures to
    preclude it.**

13. **DO** use Full Disk Encryption on your Ubuntu main computer. It's a pain to
    setup, you probably are going to have to take a whole backup and then
    encrypt and copy back to your disk. I did it when I re-installed Ubuntu. Do
    it right away, it is well worth it. If you don't do it right now,
    _definitely_ do it the next time you upgrade your operating system.

14. **DO** [tape your
    webcam](https://icyflame.github.io/blog/100daysofwriting/2017/03/31/day-42/).

That list is no way complete. I am sure I must have missed some major point that
I really wanted to tell people about, but didn't include in this list. I won't
be editing this list though, I will probably publish a better version of this
list in a couple months, if I have something more to say.

The bottomline is: **do your best to close all the doors and windows and
air-conditioning ducts** that enter your online apartment. If you leave doors
open, people _will_ try to get in. If you close most of the doors, they will be
discouraged, and (hopefully) leave you alone and target someone who is more
vulnerable. And if you find that a door has been inadvertently left open, **TAKE
ACTION!** Inaction now and regret later are a toxic combination, and the
helplessness when you realise that you could have and _should have_ taken steps
after you have been attacked doesn't help. It's a bad bad feeling.

**POST #59 is OVER**

P.S. I am pretty sure this is one of the most coherent posts in this series. I
have been writing this post for the past 45 minutes.
