---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 67 - MISSED; IIT Delhi's DNS provider got hacked, no post mortem though; Re watching Contagion (2011) and Another Earth (2011)
categories: 100daysofwriting movies books atwood
---

Ah, I have been running two days late now. Right now is 27th April, 1733. This
post should have been out on 25th April before I slept. I came down with a bad
cold and fever yesterday. So, now I have to manufacture two posts in quick
succession. I still have one more exam to give tomorrow. _Nah, no big deal!_

IIT Delhi's website got attacked, alongwith a lot of other Indian websites. Now,
apparently, it wasn't the website servers themselves that got hacked but the DNS
provider, ERNET that got hacked. And after the DNS providers got hacked, they
remained in that state for about 12 hours.

Ironically, on the same day, only a few hours before this fiasco, [this
article](http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/iit-delhi-ballot-paper-high-tech-software-hacking/1/919885.html)
about IIT Delhi using online voting systems for student elections came out. I
don't mean to get into an alma mater war here, but anyone who has designed and
built web applications knows that voting systems are rather simple systems to
build because the constraints that are applied in the real world are pretty
stringent: fixed number of voting booths, constant surveillance of the people
coming and voting, validation is done by human beings and not the software.
Also, IIT Kharagpur has been using online voting systems for the past 4 years at
the very least. Probably, even before that.

The unfortunate part of this is that there won't be any post mortem of this
particular attack. Cloudfare recently got attacked with their weird missing NULL
character bug, but they published a detailed post mortem about the attack, when
they found out about it, how they mitigated it and all kinds of details. That
kind of data reassures users and also helps others prevent similar attacks
against them.

I also ended up re-watching two movies that I have watched several times
already. I don't know what I hope to get from watching them again and again, I
believe there's something about the story, the sophistication of the story
telling, the subtlety with which the story unfolds and _most importantly_, the
hope that is the underlying driving factor for both stories: [Contagion
(2011)](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1598778/) and [Another Earth
(2011)](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1549572/). Surprisingly, both movies were
made in 2011.

On an auxilliary note, Audible got back regarding the main narration on
Handmaid's Tale's audiobook.

![img](/public/img/day-67-1.png)

Just a few added scenes. Their customer service response was rather fast, to be
honest.

**POST #67 is OVER**
