---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Day 84 - Handmaid's Tale Audiobook is here! (+ Claire Danes)
categories: 100daysofwriting atwood claire books audiobook
---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">IT IS
HERE. AND I LOVE IT. ❤️ <a
href="https://t.co/FPD1nTi2OK">pic.twitter.com/FPD1nTi2OK</a></p>&mdash;
Siddharth Kannan (@_icyflame) <a
href="https://twitter.com/_icyflame/status/863243656479653888">May 13,
2017</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I just recieved the 2012 audiobook version of Handmaid's Tale. **AND I LOVE
IT.**

I have tried one audiobook before: The Hitchhiker's guide to the Galaxy. I
didn't like the book as much as everyone else told me they did. I don't know if
it was the weird setting, or an immaturity on my part to appreciate fantasy-ish
literature. I know there's a proper word for that, I can't remember it now
though.

I started hearing the audiobook. They have done a good job of telling people
exactly how to move the files onto an iPod and I was able to do it in about 10
minutes with an old Windows 7 laptop. (In retrospect, with the Windows SMB
ransomware out there yesterday, this might have been a dodgy move. That
ransomware was delivered through spam emails though. The post mortem of that
attack will be interesting to read)

The first few chapters are very very shady about the plot of the novel, nothing
is given away, nothing is explained explicitly. If a reader were to read /
listen to the novel without having read the synopsis of the novel, then they
would hardly ever be able to _guess_ what **the Ceremony** entails for Offred,
the Commander and his wife.

I remember a lot of the first part of the book, _before_ the revelation about
how they got there. In retrospect, a few days after reading the book for the
first time, I can actually appreciate how insane it sounds that the Commander
and Offred _actually_ left their house and went to a shady night-club-ish place.
Things only escalate from there with the relationship between Offred and Nick,
in his room above the garage. That plot point sounds like something I imagined.
It's that weird, when you consider the setup of the house, the country and the
government _after_ learning about those things.

(I am talking about Handmaid's Tale being great in the **84th** post of this
series.  _DO NOT_, for one second, the irony and coincidence of that is lost on
me!)

**POST #84 is OVER**
