---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Pune Diaries 1 - Art Gallery
categories: pune-diaries art gallery sheil
---

For the last 5 years, I lived in Kharagpur, West Bengal. It is a town, no more
no less. There's nothing to expect there, and it lives up to that expectation. A
movie theater started flourishing in my last year there. Apart from that, there
was _nothing to do_ there.

After those 5 years, and even in between during Summer and Winter vacations, I
was in various cities: Chennai, Bangalore, Coimbatore briefly. But I never _did_
anything that I was unhappy about being unable to do when I was in Kharagpur.

Now, I am in Pune until the first week of September. I am in the training period
for a job, and my weekdays are not free in any sense of the word. My weekends
though, are free and I would like to use them well. And hence, this is a new
series on this blog which will follow me around this city as I do the things I
was unable to do in a town like Kharagpur. Some weeks this stuff is bound to be
boring, but I will try to keep it as interesting as I can!

***

![img](/public/img/pune-diaries-12.jpg)

Last weekend, I visited the Art2Day Gallery in Pune to see the exhibition
The Power of Point. The exhibition is a collection of ball point pen drawings by
Sheil Sadwelkar. I read about it first in the [Pune Mirror][1]. The thing that
intrigued me most about this form of art was that ball point pens are
notoriously difficult to erase. In pencil sketches, and even in paintings, there
is some margin for error. But ball point pen drawings completely remove this
margin for error. The drawing must be right the first time, or you must start
all over again. That is a great sort of finality, and I wanted to see what the
subjects of these drawings were and how they affected me when I saw them.

(**Note:** I am not an _art buff_. This caught my eye and I decided to go.)

The walk from the place I stay to Art2Day was pleasant and took me through some
quiet parts of Pune. It was about 4 pm and there was a slight drizzle. I went
right in front of the Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce's front gate (I
think it was the front gate)

The drawings were really good! I was completely taken aback by the detail and
intricacy in each of the paintings. Three paintings really caught my attention.

**_The Final Destination_**

This particular painting had a road that wasn't visible after some distance. It
disappeared behind a mountain of some sort. This appealed to me as such an
appropriate analogy for daily life! Everyday, the problems that I face in that
day, week or month seem like the largest I have ever faced and will ever face. A
few months down the line, everything seems to make a lot more sense. In general,
it's like that famous quote: "Life can only be understood in retrospect, but you
must live it in the other direction"

I was unable to find an image of this painting!

**_Plastic Bonsai_, _Candyfloss River_**

Throughout several of the drawings, the common thread is the use of parallel
lines to suggest density. For example, the ground is densely packed with
vertical lines in the background, and over that the subject is drawn, roots in
these paintings with trees. And as the ground reaches sky, the densite of these
vertical lines reduces and suggest the beginning of air. This is absolutely
mesmerizing to watch, because the first time I saw these drawings I didn't even
notice these in the background. Only on close observation did I realize that the
effect of these lines was perceived automatically and there was no conscious
effort required to think about them! _FREAKING AMAZING!_

[![img](/public/img/pune-diaries-11.png)][3]

**_Eyes One_, _Eyes at Visarajan_**

Another trick that pervades all of the art art these small curves that seem to
be connected. They are clearly visible in any of the paintings with trees where
the density of leaves and the suggestion of being hollow or filled is shown
clearly using the density and the closeness of these curls. In some places they
are small and dense, whereas in other places they are farther apart and create
the near-solid background in some drawings.

Apart from the paintings mentioned above, I especially liked _Fuji Bypass_ and
_Fallen in Love_ as well.

The exhibition ended today. So, I can't really tell you to go see the paintings
this time. The exhibtion is sure to continue somewhere else. If you are ever in
the city where these paintings are being shown, definitely find a way to see
them! It was a great experience!

**P.S.** Some of the paintings can be found online [here][2].

**WEEK 1 OF PUNE DIARIES IS OVER**

[1]: https://punemirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/unwind/pen-mode/articleshow/64994024.cms
[2]: https://www.sheilsadwelkar.com/the-shades
[3]: https://www.sheilsadwelkar.com/fullscreen-page/comp-jg9asnel/af18d31c-d72b-4155-9b56-8c70e347aede/1/%3Fi%3D1%26p%3Db16sa%26s%3Dstyle-jgofcjb7
