---
layout: post
comments: true
title: True Detective Season 1
categories: true-detective tv-series
---

_This post does not have spoilers about True Detective Season 1_

When [Season 3][1] started recently, I found myself thinking about what exactly
it was about True Detective season 1 that I liked so much. This post is a look
into what's great about that season.

### The Plot

A murder mystery in Louisiana that is being investigated by two _very_ different
detectives: Rust and Marty. Marty is every man's man; he has a family, two
daughters and some mistakes in his character. He mingles with people well and
has a good rapport with the people he works with. 

<!--more-->

Rust is single, he has a mysterious past and no one really knows what he did
before coming here. He waxes philosophical almost all the time.  Most of the
people that Rust works with don't really like him and are unsettled by him.
Early on in the series, we are shown how Rust has insomnia and works through the
night a lot of days. He is also an excellent detective with an uncanny ability
to look through people and situations. One of his most iconic quotes: "I've
never been in a room more than 5 minutes and not known whether they did it or
not. How long does it take you?"

The original murder mystery happens in 1995. The two men are being interviewed
in the current time (~2012) about this mystery because something similar has
apparently happened. The series unwinds the complete story of the murder
mystery, how the two men went about investigating that back in '95 and it's
connection to the mystery at hand.

____

That's the story. There's nothing particularly remarkable about the story when
you look at it. The way it is shot and told is extremely well-done. Although, the
story sometimes alternates between the present, the past ('95) and the more
recent past (2002), I have never felt disoriented about what is going on. Every
single tool that is useful in telling the viewer about the different times is
used effectively and constantly: the lighting, clothes, the characters' ages,
the characters' traits and how they change over time. That's one of the reasons I
like this show: **Despite having a complex plot, the viewer is never disoriented
or disconnected from the characters. We know exactly what is going on, all the
time**

Next: **Rustin Cohle**. Rust is the central character in the series. In some
ways, the murder might be the central theme of the show, but Rust is the
driver. He decides where the show goes, he decides the _mood_ of the show. His
quotes are legendary;

____

If you have ever seen an impressive character on screen, you know that they are
always charismatic, strong, and have powers that other characters on screen
don't. Rust has all of this. He is stronger than Marty, he can read people
and never really has to think too much about it. All of these things make
him less and less relatable; he's depicted to possess super-human abilities. But
there's a raw human quality to him: From the beginning, his insomnia, his
addiction, his inability to engage socially, some of his traits clearly show how
lonely and tired he is. He talks a lot about existence and it's usefulness and
how "consciousness was a mis-step in evolution"; you wonder if he's talking
about all this because he can't find the point of his own existence. Marty
recounts this when he says to him, "When you talk like that, you sound
panicked".

Rust is one of the most well-written, well-directed and well-acted characters in
the "investigator" demographic. Another detective I like is Carrie Mathison from
Homeland. She has a lot of the same qualities; minus the existential talk. And,
while Carrie is dealing with stakes that are as high as saving thousands of
people, Rust is working on stopping someone who is hurting a few people. This
smaller focus makes him more human.

The final dimension to Rust's character comes from the way people in the show
look at him. They are in the same world and were purposefully written to react
to him the way they do. That gives us the unique perspective of what the
writers wanted Rust to be seen as. Here, one of Maggie's quotes is very helpful,
"Rust knew exactly who he was and there was no talking him out of it". She finds
Rust to be someone who knows who he is, who is done figuring out the purpose of
his existence. What's remarkable is that, Marty, who has spent a lot more time
with Rust doesn't actually believe that. A superficial look at Rust might lead
us to believe that he has it all figured out (like Maggie believes), but we know
that when Rust talks about himself and from his actions, he is far from that
point of stability and security. There is a duality about him: superficially, he
is a super-hero: he is strong, intelligent, good at his job. Get to know him a
little better, and you realize that he has existential thoughts, his life
revolves around his job, he has trouble figuring out his social purpose. "We are
the bad men who keep other bad men from coming to the door"

[1]: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2356777/episodes?season=3
