---
layout: post
comments: true
title: '"Absurd Customer Service" - Part 2, Suggestions'
categories: experiences absurdity customer-service
series_id: absurd-customer-service-problem
---

I am not one to balk when it comes to writing rants and leaving it at that. However, when publishing
rants, I think it is worthwhile to also think about the problems and try to figure out whether there
is some solution to the problems that one is ranting about. Often, there is no such solution. If an
easy solution did exist, there would be no need to find catharsis through the process of writing a
rant. In the case of the Absurd Customer Service problem though, there _are_ some solutions. Some of
these are practical and can be adopted in our daily lives. While others are absurd; for the
absurdity of the solution must mirror the absurdity of the problem.

(This is the second post in a 2-part series about absurd customer service experiences. You can read
[the first part here](/2022/04/30/absurd-customer-service-part-1).)

<!--more-->


# Customer Service Agents Are People. Empower Them To Make Decisions.

As an example of good service, I will cite Amazon. Okay, I know. Amazon is an example of how
capitalism has gone terribly wrong because their treatment of warehouse workers is questionable and
they are openly opposed to unions. But I will cite Amazon's Customer Service anyway because there is
an important aspect of customer service which has been bulldozed by technology.

When you contact Amazon's customer care and explain your situation to the person on the other end of
the phone line or the chat message, they are _listening._ This basic act of empathy and attention is
rare, with customer service being staffed by poorly paid, unmotivated agents who are not being paid
enough to care and are being forced to work inhumane hours. After listening to the situation that
you have gotten yourself in, the customer service agent is able to _make decisions._ They _can_
decide to issue a refund for your order. They can contact the seller and ask them to replace what
you ordered. Their resolution depends on your situation, but all of this stems from the fact that
they trust your version of events and the customer service experience is biased to be good for the
customer and biased against the seller. (Sellers will definitely complain about this bias. If I were
to become an Amazon seller, I would probably cite Amazon as an example of bad customer service.)

This organization-level trust in the customer service agent is crucial. If you don't trust and
empower the people in the trenches to make decisions, you will frustrate the customer. As an
organization, you have the power to strong-arm shady suppliers. The customer does not have this
power. Customer retention can not be the reason you choose to have great customer service. Amazon
does not provide good customer service because they are afraid of their customers going away. (You
are going to a go to a store to buy a USB charging cable? **What, are you crazy or something?**) This
move to provide good customer service must be driven by a profound desire to offer good service.


# Customer Service Via Email

Most companies have moved away from the helpline number which can be called to talk to someone. This
is okay. This is not the problem. If you have a customer support email with a median
turn-around-time of 2 hours, it does not even matter whether you have a helpline number or
not. Everyone wants to explain their situation to someone and be _heard._ If you give them a single
email address and respond reliably to your customer's queries, they will still remain overwhelmingly
happy with your service. Do not rule out the phone: What can be explained in a 10 minute phone call
can take up 100s of lines of text. **Nevertheless, moving away from the phone is okay. Moving away
from providing useful service is not.**

Many companies have also taken to using chat bots. I think this is a bad move. Chat bots and chat
with customer service agents gives the illusion of real time communication. But most people reaching
out to customer service are probably not in standard situations which can be listed up and supplied
as input to a chat bot software, or can be **resolved quickly** by an agent. It will probably take
time to understand the situation, make a decision, get approvals for the decision, and communicate
it to the user. All of this can **not** be completed in a 5-minute chat session in which you can not
move away from your screen. And hopefully, you won't close the tab that has the open chat with
customer support.


# Stay Away From The Absurd. Stay Away From The Shiny New Thing.

Historically, old-school capitalists were known for their conservative beliefs and their deep
suspicion of the "new thing on the block." Now, the equation is reversed. Capitalists want to employ
the shiny new thing, as soon as it comes out. Everyone abandoned e-mail for Slack and helplines for
SalesForce. Where are we now? 100s of unread threads on Slack every Monday morning and customer
service inquiries which never get answered despite having a "reference number" automatically
generated by your ticketing software.

There is a semi-popular adage about technology: **When any new technology comes out, don't be an
early adopter of it and don't be the last person to adopt it either.** You have to choose your time
and start using the technology somewhere in the middle; at a point when it has gotten sufficient
traction to be well-understood and sufficient time to mature into a cost-effective product.

Until a few months ago, I believed that this kind of cost-benefit analysis was built into our
economy. After all, decision makers demand huge amounts of data, analysis, and well-built
presentations before deciding to delve into something. **Why, then, do we end up with bad systems?** I
have come to the conclusion that when it comes to the shiny new thing, the new thing is so shiny
that many decision makers will look past the blemishes just under the shiny surface and claim to see
the **vision** at the core of the technology.

This has reached cult-like levels with crypto-currency and decentralization:

> Cryptocurrency and Web 3 are the shiny new things. Yes, they have some problems right now. But hey!
> It's early days. We are heading towards a glorious decentralized future.


# Re: Your Mobile Number. Don't Ask, Don't Tell

Well, this is the hard one. For customers, don't share your mobile number with the shops that you
shop at. Why would you share your mobile number with a random cashier when you would think long and
hard before sharing it with a potential mate? What is the value addition for you? Why do you want to
give this information to a shop? How do you know the shop is not selling the database that it has
built up of names and phone numbers to some sales agency? Our mobile numbers are the **most** direct
ways to reach us; there is no filter. Do Not Disturb services offered by operators are famously
bad. I think that we would love being in a world in which every email and every phone call we get is
actually something that we are interested in. With email, we have methods to filter out the ones
that we don't want. Unfortunately, these mechanisms do not exist for mobile phones right now.

The nature of mobile telephony also makes it very hard to switch your phone easily. You would almost
certainly have to spend several hours changing your phone number at the places that matter to you
(banks, security services, online 2-Factor Authentication). We want to avoid doing this as much as
possible. And the simplest way to do this is to simply not share your number.

Another possible method that I have heard of is to have some sort of a throwaway number which you
can use everywhere that you don't want to give your main phone number. But I think this is more
cumbersome and fiscally wasteful. Now, you have two phone numbers to keep track of and there is no
way to know when you will need which number. So, you have to carry both numbers along all the
time. That is suboptimal.

I understand that organizations and businesses want to track their customers. They want to find out
who is a loyal customer and give them deals or maybe they want to entice them to come back by
sending them a message perilously close to their birthday or Valentine's Day. In these cases, they
_do_ need some method of tracking customers and their purchases. But I think that this can be based
on the points-based reward system. A basic point system would award you points based on your
purchase, which can be kept track of preferably using some sort of paper card. You get extra points
for your birthday, etc.

This system works very well. I can say this from my experience in Japan. Perhaps due to restrictions
on the storage and sharing of personal information, most shops in Japan will ask you if you want a
point card whenever you purchase something there. If you say no, they leave you be. (They will ask
you the next time you shop there.) If you say yes, they will give you a small piece of paper or a
coupon which can be used on your next purchase there. This is surprisingly effective. I have point
cards from some of the chains that I use regularly for furniture, electronics, coffee beans. And I
specifically look for these shops when I have to make some kind of purchase. This is the perfect
situation for a customer; they are able to enjoy the benefits of being loyal to a chain of stores
without divulging any personal information to the chain.


# Technology Is Not A Silver Bullet

I think everyone needs to repeat this to themselves at least once a day. That is not hyperbole; it
is a real suggestion for people who are making decisions about the adoption of new tools. Most
cities in India have watchmen standing at the gates of apartment buildings. This has been a fixture
of apartment buildings of all sizes since the early 2000s. In this landscape, there is hardly any
security threat which the watchmen can't identify or act on. Yet, a business such as [this one](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MyGate) is
able to thrive. Why is that? Why should someone who has come to your apartment building to deliver a
package to _your house_ have to be approved on a mobile application before they can deliver the
package that is **addressed to you?** This redundant verification is futile. It assumes that the
watchman who is standing at the gate will not be able to make a judgment about whether the person
and the package are legitimate. It is interesting to note that most buildings which introduce this
application do not actually cut costs by getting rid of the watchmen who are guarding the building
at the gate. **This kind of application is introduced simply because _technology_ is the solution. No
one has noticed that there is a problem yet.**

There is no simple way to convince people that the introduction of new technology is always a bad
idea when it does not solve an existing problem. There are some people who want to venture out into
the unpaved land and explore new ideas. I certainly do not want to _try_ new technology simply
because it exists. It is a waste of my time. And it is a waste of yours too. So, before you adopt
the latest technology in customer service, ask yourself if you are solving a problem with it or
whether you are indulging your desire to be known as a cutting edge organization. \*No matter what
technologies you introduce, the core requirement for good customer service will always be empathy;
not a computer screen or a case reference.\*
