---
layout: post
comments: true
title: The Unstoppable March of Technology
categories: technology artificial-intelligence
---

Every conversation that I have been in over the past 3 weeks outside the home has been about
generative AI, and the vein of all these conversations is quite similar. I did not meet a lot of
people, but I can tell that most of the people are optimistic about this new "technological
advancement."[^1] I met a few skeptics who believe that generative AI is just a summary of what's
already out there and incapable of coming up with something original. I agree with those skeptics,
based on the screenshots that abound on Twitter, and of which a few I have seen.  The apparent
inevitability of the "next thing" in technology is incomprehensible; it is a cultural, almost
religious belief, in the social psyche. For a while now, there has been this unstated acceptance
that new technologies will come along, and those who don't use them or, at least, adapt to them,
will be left behind in the dust. Is the dust good enough? One wouldn't even think of it; when has
dust ever been "good enough"?. Is the cutting edge really something you want to be at? You better
want it, or you will be left behind. Even if you are standing still on the travelator of
technological advancements, you will be pulled along, dragging and screaming, on the unstoppable
march of technology.

<!--more-->

It is probably quite hard to keep up with the news. I don't read much news anymore. Many times, I
don't _even_ know the single topic that has been debated on **all the** newsletters for the past 3
days. I don't feel like I miss many things. I find out about these things eventually, and most of
the time, I am underwhelmed by what I find. So, I have decided to not keep up with the news and
instead spend my time on long form magazine articles, non-fiction books that try to guess where
things went wrong[^2], and novels that have nothing to do with the present. But even this level of
disconnection did not save me from finding out about the recent advances in generative AI
technology.

For a long time, the goal of AI scientists was to make something that was sentient and could think
and do things like a human being. Some AI scientists thought the creation of such an AI system was
so inevitable that they started working on the problem of ensuring that these AI systems (which will
undoubtedly be created, **duh.**) don't end up adversely affecting humans. Such an AI system does not
exist yet. However, AI technology has come a long way: It can now write a mediocre essay about any
topic, which is probably plagiarizing 100s of great essays and millions of mediocre essays on the
same topic. (I am also a mediocre essay writer; ChatGPT is my peer.)

Another feature of this generative AI craze has been that it can write individual, isolated
functions in programming languages for things like integrating a spreadsheet with some other tool or
for connecting to the API of a service and automating some task, which was being performed
manually. This feature is probably not very scary to most software engineers; nevertheless, let me
say it aloud just once: **Most engineers are not writing isolated functions.** Their everyday task
involves making sense of the myriad ways things are done at their workplace, and figuring out a way
to make the technological stack a little bit easier to understand.

Generative AI can also create some images. And [Wired magazine](https://www.wired.com/story/picture-limitless-creativity-ai-image-generators/) thinks that these images are better
than "art created by most humans." They declared that generative AI now has "lowercase creativity."
I think this claim is just wrong. AI art is AI art; not "real" art. There is no "authority" who can
decide what is "real" art and what isn't. So, whatever each viewer decides goes. For me, [a painting
by Klee](https://artsandculture.google.com/asset/super-chess-paul-klee/MwHvy-HH4O6BGw) or that of a minion by my niece is still objectively and incomparably better than the images
are generated by some computer program. Despite all the dressing up of AI as some "magical system,"
it is after all just a computer program.

Funnily enough, even this article about "AI's ability to generate images that are better than art by
most humans" is **not** content with this _bizarre_ and monumental claim!  Somewhere in the middle,
and completely out of nowhere, the author starts talking about how in the future you could generate
3D images, then use that to create a world in the metaverse and then walk through it with your VR
headset. (You might notice that all the terms used in the previous sentence were coined in the 90s
and entered the public's psyche only less than a year ago, when one company decided to change their
name and make one of those terms the central thing in their future business.)

---

Once, there were letters and [We Used To Wait](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQuUN1HGa0c). Then, there was the Telegraph. Then, Radio, Television
(Idiot Box), Computer, Internet (Revolutionary), Smartphones, Social Media (Anxiety), Connected
Homes (Internet of Things). Every technology brought along some problems which were fixed by the
next _advancement_. No one stopped to think whether the adoption of each technological advancement
was necessary; whether it introduced more problems than it solved; whether the march of technology
was **really inevitable**.

Freud noticed this early on:[^3]

> Freud once pointed out that new technologies merely solve problems created by other technologies. To
> the common refrain that without the telephone, we'd be unable to hear the voices of our adult
> children who live hundreds of miles away, he replied, "If there had been no railway to conquer
> distances, my child would never have left his native town and I should need no telephone to hear his
> voice."

---

**Postscript:** A list of articles that take a sober view of what is lost by always being on the
cutting edge:

1.  [AI And The Limits Of Language](https://www.noemamag.com/ai-and-the-limits-of-language/)
2.  [The Prompt Box is a Minefield: AI Chatbots and Power of Language](https://theconvivialsociety.substack.com/p/the-prompt-box-is-a-minefield-ai)
3.  [Does Digital Connectivity Democratize Culture?](https://www.noemamag.com/hyperconnected-culture-and-its-discontents/)

[^1]: It is interesting that the change has been characterized as an advancement even before it is completely clear what the change really even is.
[^2]: We are all in tacit agreement that things have gone terribly wrong, right?
[^3]: **Author:** Meghan O'Gieblyn. From the "Dear Cloud Support" column in the February 2023 issue of Wired magaine.
